Democrat Joe Biden has taken the lead in Pennsylvania over President Donald Trump, putting him on the cusp of victory in the presidential race. Trump issued a statement Friday vowing a legal fight, but stopped short of repeating his claim that he had won the election outright. “This is about the integrity of our entire election process,” Trump said. “We will pursue this process through every aspect of the law to guarantee the American people have confidence in our government.” Biden’s lead of 13,324 votes in Pennsylvania was steadily increasing as vote totals trickled in. He also narrowly overtook Trump in Georgia, a state that last selected a Democratic presidential candidate in 1992. Pennsylvania has 20 electoral votes, meaning that if Biden wins the state, he will have more than the 270 Electoral College votes needed to claim the White House. More unofficial results from all remaining battlegrounds, including Nevada, were expected throughout the day on Friday. Arizona’s largest county, Maricopa, added 61,789 votes to its count Friday morning, with Biden’s lead narrowing in the state to 43,569. But Trump won only 53% of the newly counted votes, short of the 57% mark of remaining votes that he needs, making Biden’s victory there seem slightly more secure. The Associated Press and Fox News have called Arizona for Biden, but other networks say it remains too close to predict a winner. The Biden campaign is setting up for a prime time speech Friday by both Biden and his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, in Wilmington, Delaware, in a sign of confidence that he will soon be able to claim victory. The S&P 500 fluctuated between gains and losses after posting the biggest four-day increase since April. Treasury 10-year note yields climbed back above 0.80% and the dollar lingered at a more than two-year low. Decision Desk HQ, an election-data firm, has projected Biden will win Pennsylvania and therefore the presidency. Bloomberg News does not use Decision Desk HQ projections to determine election winners. The Associated Press and TV networks have not yet called the state or the final outcome. The Trump campaign immediately rejected that call. “This race is not over,” said Trump campaign lawyer Matt Morgan. He said the call was based on faulty projections in four states that he claimed had voting irregularities. “Biden is relying on these states for his phony claim on the White House, but once the election is final, President Trump will be re-elected.” The Biden campaign, however, dismissed attacks on the results and concerns that Trump might not concede. “The American people will decide this election. And the United States government is perfectly capable of escorting trespassers out of the White House,” said campaign spokesman Andrew Bates. Speaking Friday morning on CNBC, Trump’s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said he expects a “peaceful transfer of power” if Biden wins. “We abide by the rule of law and so will this president,” he said. With the result razor thin, the Georgia secretary of state said Friday there would be a recount of the presidential vote total there. Trump’s campaign is promising legal challenges that could draw out results. In a statement at the White House late Thursday, Trump insisted the election is being stolen from him, despite no evidence of widespread voting irregularities. “If you count the legal votes, I easily win. If you count the illegal votes, they can try to steal the election from us,” a downcast Trump said, reciting a litany of issues with vote-counting in key states. His campaign’s lawsuits to challenge the count, however, have gained little traction, with at least two being thrown out in Georgia and Michigan. Biden expanded his lead in Nevada. Photographer: Joe Buglewicz/Bloomberg Read More: Trump’s Vote Count Lawsuits Fail in Court but Rouse His Base In many ways, the week has unfolded in the way many observers predicted, with Trump racking up leads in key states in votes counted on election night, while Biden has added to his totals with mail-in votes counted later that eroded Trump’s advantage. Trump has pointed to that change in his fortunes as evidence of fraud but volatility was expected because of increased mail-in voting due to the coronavirus. In addition, Trump spent so much time before the election telegraphing his contention that only votes on Election Day should be counted, and his threat to challenge the results, that it gave legal experts a chance to educate voters ahead of time. Close allies fanned out to Pennsylvania, Georgia, Arizona and Nevada to hold news conferences and make accusations of a rigged system, with little to no evidence. Legal challenges were largely aimed at slowing or pausing counting of the votes, and were generally unsuccessful. But some Republicans spoke out against Trump’s unsubstantiated claims. “I saw the president’s speech last night and it was very hard to watch,” Senator Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, said on NBC. “The president’s allegations of large-scale fraud and theft of the election are just not substantiated. I’m not aware of any significant wrongdoing here.” Read More: Arizona Results Draw Different Conclusions by News Outlets Utah Senator Mitt Romney also slammed the president’s claims of sweeping fraud. “He is wrong to say that the election was rigged, corrupt and stolen -- doing so damages the cause of freedom here and around the world, weakens the institutions that lie at the foundation of the Republic, and recklessly inflames destructive and dangerous passions,” Romney said on Twitter. In Nevada, Biden’s lead doubled to 22,076 in Friday morning counting. The state has just six Electoral College votes, but would clinch the presidency for Biden if he also held neighboring Arizona. About 190,000 ballots have to be counted, mostly in the county that includes Las Vegas, according to Nevada Secretary of State Barbara Cegavske. Since election night, Trump has been in the White House and has met or spoken with a coterie of close advisers including Hope Hicks; Dan Scavino; his children Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka; as well as Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and Vice President Mike Pence, according to people familiar with the matter. He has also spoken with the Republican governors of two states in which the election outcome remains unclear, Arizona and Georgia, the people said. A monitor observes ballots being counted at the Clark County Election Department in North Las Vegas, Nevada, on Thursday. Photographer: Joe Buglewicz/Bloomberg As frustration and disappointment simmered in Trump’s circles, his son signaled a long fight. Donald Trump Jr. also tweeted that his father’s best option was “to go to total war over this election to expose all of the fraud.” Twitter quickly flagged that tweet as misleading, as it has with several of the president’s tweets since polls closed. But Biden is confident that he will win and urging patience. Winning Pennsylvania would be particularly meaningful for Biden, who lived in the state until age 10 and was sometimes called the state’s third senator because the Philadelphia media market reaches into Delaware, which he represented in the Senate. The best thing for America’s future is for @realDonaldTrump to go to total war over this election to expose all of the fraud, cheating, dead/no longer in state voters, that has been going on for far too long.It’s time to clean up this mess & stop looking like a banana republic! Read More: Georgia Race May Leave Senate Balance Hanging Until January “Democracy is sometimes messy. It sometimes requires a little patience as well,” Biden said in a brief speech Thursday. “But that patience has been rewarded now for more than 240 years with a system of governance that’s been the envy of the world.” — With assistance by Saleha Mohsin, Laura Davison, Mark Niquette, Gregory Korte, and Tyler Pager