Clashes in Blockhauss, Abidjan, on Oct. 31. Photographer: Issouf Sanogo/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Issouf Sanogo/AFP via Getty Images Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Ivory Coast’s main opposition parties called for the installation of a “civil transition” following a presidential election they asked their supporters to boycott. Opposition political parties “do not recognize the presidential election and note the end of President Alassane Ouattara’s mandate,” Pascal Affi N’Guessan, told reporters Sunday on behalf of the group, which is supported by Democratic Party of Ivory Coast leader, Henri Konan Bedie. Both men’s names appeared on the ballot paper, but they asked voters to stay away because they consider the third-term bid unconstitutional. They called for a civil transition in order to “create the conditions for a fair and transparent presidential election,” Affi N’Guessan said. Bedie backed Ouattara in a second-round vote in 2010 and again in 2015, but the two fell out two years ago when Ouattara first said that a new constitution adopted in 2016 reset the clock and allowed him to seek another mandate. Bedie wanted a candidate from his own party to succeed Ouattara. At least five people died and dozens of others were injured in election-day clashes as vote counting continues with partial results expected to be announced from late Sunday. Four people were killed in the central town of Tiebissou, said Mayor Germain N’dri, while another died in the eastern city of Abengourou, state-owned broadcaster RTI reported, citing the town’s prefect. The ruling Rally of Houphouetists for Democracy and Peace party commended the electoral commission for the organization of the vote, its secretary-general Adama Bictogo told reporters Saturday after the polls closed.The run-up to the election was marred by sporadic violence that the government blamed on the opposition calling for a civil disobedience campaign. Government had deployed about 35,000 security agents nationwide to secure the vote. An estimated 23% of polling stations remained closed throughout the day, according to local observer mission, Indigo. Observers noted barricades that paralyzed some zones, threats against polling staff and destruction of electoral material that prevented stations from opening and voters from casting their ballots, they told reporters Sunday. Affi N’Guessan is loyal to former president Laurent Gbagbo, whose candidacy was rejected by the Constitutional Council because he was sentenced in absentia to 20 years in prison for looting the central bank. The world’s top cocoa producer is on tenterhooks following the vote that had fueled concern about unrest in the country that experienced widespread violence in the wake of the 2010 presidential elections, triggered by Gbagbo’s refusal to concede defeat. That conflict left more than 3,000 people missing or dead. — With assistance by Katarina Hoije