Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. UniCredit SpA called an unscheduled meeting to discuss governance and strategy, raising doubts about the future of Chief Executive Officer Jean Pierre Mustier after he resisted the Italian government’s demands to take over troubled rival Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA. Board members of the Milan-based lender meet later on Sunday to focus on governance ahead of the expiration of Mustier’s term in April, people with knowledge of the matter said. The meeting is informal and will discuss board renewal and other procedures related to the end of Mustier’s term, some of the people said, asking not to be identified as the plans are private. UniCredit CEO Says M&A No Panacea for Bank in Deal Rejection Jean Pierre Mustier Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg The last-minute meeting follows a tumultuous year for the Italian lender. Mustier -- in common with many other CEOs -- has been forced to row back on ambitions because of the coronavirus. He’s clashed with some board members in recent months over his approach to M&A, arguing that the bank should ignore accelerating consolidation in its local market to focus on organic growth. A UniCredit spokesman declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. Italian newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore reported earlier that the meeting will focus on the conditions under which the executive could stay once his term expires. UniCredit’s nomination committee will officially start identifying the list of board candidates this week, with the board set to be renewed in the spring, according to the people. While Mustier has repeatedly said he’s against acquisitions and would prefer to return cash to shareholders, the Italian Treasury is seeking to find a way to persuade UniCredit to take over troubled state-controlled Monte Paschi. The appointment of Pier Carlo Padoan, Italy’s finance minister between 2014 and 2018 and the architect of Paschi’s rescue, as UniCredit’s next chairman was intended to clear the path to a takeover, according to the people. Italy, UniCredit Intensify Talks on Takeover of Monte Paschi Mustier is working on an update of the bank’s strategic plan to be announced early next year, as the uncertainty related to the effect of pandemic makes it more difficult for the bank to hit existing targets. Italy -- along with Spain -- is one of the European markets to see increasing consolidation. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, UniCredit’s main rival in the country, has consolidated its leadership by buying smaller UBI Banca, while Credit Agricole’s Italian business is offering about $875 million to take over Credito Valtellinese. Mustier earlier this year pulled out of the race to become chief executive officer of HSBC Holdings Plc. He emerged as a key external contender in competition with interim CEO Noel Quinn, who ultimately took over. After being approached by HSBC, he engaged in informal talks before deciding that the time wasn’t right because of UniCredit’s new strategic plan and the brewing Coronavirus worries in Italy, a person close to his thinking said at the time. Mustier, 59, a 32-year veteran of the European securities industry, took the helm at UniCredit in July 2016, leaving Tikehau Capital, an investment management company. He stepped down as head of UniCredit’s corporate and investment banking business in 2014 after serving the bank for three years. He was previously at Societe Generale SA, working his way through the ranks with positions at the investment bank in Paris, Tokyo and Hong Kong, having joined the French lender in 1987 as a stock-options trader. UniCredit’s Mustier Exits HSBC CEO Race in Blow to U.K. Bank During his time at UniCredit, he’s led a turnaround by cutting costs and accelerating the cleanup of the balance sheet. He’s sought to simplify the bank’s structure and improve capital allocation. Mustier has repeatedly said excess capital will be used to support the economy and reward investors. UniCredit posted quarterly profit that beat estimates as trading boosted revenue and the bank set aside less money than expected to cover soured loans. Despite the affects of the pandemic on borrowers, UniCredit reduced its non-performing loan ratio to 4.7% as of Sept. 30, from 4.8% at the end of June, the lowest among its main peers. Still, UniCredit is trading at about 0.35 times its tangible book value compared with 0.73 times at Intesa.