Buying a first home has turned into an agonizing gamble for Britain’s millennials. Lenders are holding back on the low-deposit mortgages first-time buyers typically rely on as the pandemic threatens their balance sheets. Rising unemployment is hitting young people the hardest and the Bank of England is warning that Brexit could wreak even more damage on an economy already suffering its worst recession in three centuries. Some analysts are warning that the housing market could fall by as much as 14% next year — despite a temporary tax break that has given the market some short-term relief. Homeowners are set to overtake first-time buyers as market driver Source: Zoopla analysis of HMRC/UKFinance Figures for 2020 and 2021 are estimates The dilemma has tortured Alice O’Fee all year. In the last 12 months, the 25-year old tech consultant has swung from almost buying the apartment of her dreams in Manchester, to shelving her plans in the first U.K. lockdown, and now trying to get on the property ladder again. “Our impatience has got the better of us,” she said by phone. “Renting is just throwing money away.” As young people contemplate buying their first home with the U.K. mired in the second major economic downturn of their lifetime, here are some tips to help navigate some of the big issues. The first decision any buyer faces is how to cobble together a deposit. With the average home selling for 262,000 pounds ($350,000) in England — 496,000 pounds in London — it’s a daunting prospect. The house-price rally, fueled by low interest rates and government incentives, has made this task even harder, according to Yolande Barnes, a real estate researcher at University College London. “What that’s created is not an issue of affordability around the cost of the mortgage, it’s the cost of the deposit — the entry cost has become higher.” As a result, many young people rely on their parents. More than half of first-time buyers under the age of 35 received financial help when purchasing their home, according to research from Legal & General Group Plc. The basic rule of thumb is the bigger the deposit you can put down, the easier it will be to find an affordable mortgage. Zoopla recommends saving up at least 10% of the purchase price, while a deposit of at least 25% will give you access to the best financing deals. Mortgage rates with the highest loan to value ratios have soared Source: Knight Frank Finance, Bank of England  On the financing front, the good news is that mortgage approvals climbed to a 13-year high in September amid the housing boom. The number of loans available at 90% or 95% of the purchase price, however, has “shrunk massively” since the pandemic started, according to Liam Bailey, global head of research at broker Knight Frank. Given the strong demand for mortgages, lenders have been raising prices, Bailey said. The average interest rate on a loan of 90% of the value of the home was more than double that on a 60% mortgage in October, according to data from Knight Frank’s mortgage advisory arm. That spread could narrow if the market slows after March, when the government’s sales-tax break ends, Bailey said. As for how much you can expect to borrow, first-time buyers are likely to find that lenders offer a mortgage equivalent to no more than four to four-and-a-half times their income, said David Hollingworth, communications director for London & Country Mortgages. And some lenders limit how much financial gifts can contribute to your deposit, he said. Next year the low-cost loan program called Help to Buy that was started in 2013 will change, benefitting first-time buyers. It currently applies to all purchases of new homes, but as of April 1, only first-time buyers will qualify for the final two years of the program, helping them compete with existing owners. Boris Johnson said his low-deposit mortgage program could allow 2 million more people to own their own homes. While this would help address the shortage of available loans, the government hasn’t yet fleshed out the idea. Finally, the relief on sales tax, known as stamp duty, raised the threshold at which tax on homes is paid to 500,000 pounds for all buyers. When it expires, the old rules come back into force, meaning new buyers will remain exempt from paying tax on property worth as much as 300,000 pounds, while other buyers will resume paying at 125,000 pounds. Anyone wanting to take advantage of the tax break should act fast. To qualify for the relief, a purchase has to be completed by March 31. With the backlog of deals already in the pipeline, new buyers will need to agree a deal before Christmas to be sure of wrapping it up in time, according to Zoopla. With all that in mind, should you buy now or hold off to see what happens to the economy and the housing market? If you’ve managed to put together a deposit, it could make more sense to invest it in a property than leave it in your savings account making a minimal return, said Paula Higgins, founder and chief executive of information service the HomeOwners Alliance. Still, given soaring house prices and fierce competition with existing buyers, this may not be the right time to buy, she said. “What you don’t want to do is to get stuck in a place that you can’t afford, or you don’t want to live in, which sometimes happens if you rush things too quickly — which is why the stamp duty holiday is maybe a bit dangerous,” Higgins said. Waiting for house prices to fall also might not be the best option, said Grainne Gilmore, head of research at Zoopla. “You’d need prices to come down in high single digits to get beyond what we’ve seen in the uplift over the past 18 months,” she said.