Photographer: Mike De Socio/Bloomberg Photographer: Mike De Socio/Bloomberg When Debra Lockrow opened her art and antique store ten years ago, hers was one of the few shops that occupied the tight grid of brownstones and brick storefronts in Troy, New York. There were so many empty buildings downtown that she could regularly borrow vacant spaces to host monthly, pop-up art shows. “It’s a really good problem to have that we can’t do that anymore,” she said. “It means that the businesses are all filled.” Indeed, her stretch of River Street became home to a craft ice cream parlor, pottery studio and handcrafted soap shop. A wine bar lit by Edison bulbs opened around the corner in 2012. And every Saturday, more than 15,000 people would descend on those streets for a waterfront farmers market that draws vendors and visitors from across the region That was all before the Covid-19 pandemic struck, leaving this small city at a crossroads. Troy’s experience highlights the predicament of small cities all over the country. Local businesses have been left uncertain of their future, and potential closures risk dimming the downtown vibrancy that proved so vital. In Troy, a city with a population just under 50,000 six miles from the state capital of Albany, the most recent economic comeback has been propelled largely by hip restaurants and quirky retailers that attracted real estate development and affluent renters. It was different from previous revivals that would bud only to die on the vine; this one, finally, was taking root. That was reflected in the city’s real estate market: Two- and three-family homes saw their sale prices double from 2013 to 2018, and they started selling in half the time. It was a trend across New York’s Capital Region, which also includes the small cities of Schenectady and Saratoga Springs. The major employers in the area — government, health care and education — tend to be resilient even in downturns, and drew out-of-town investors who saw a stable rental market. As the revitalization snowballed over the last decade, a few people began to call Troy “the new Brooklyn.” In 2014, the Albany Times-Union declared, “Every day, it seems, brings an announcement of a store opening, a company relocating from Albany or Clifton Park, or a building that’s set to be rehabbed.” In 2018,  New York noted the town’s art scene and asked whether Troy might become the “next Hudson.” This was a welcome turn of events for a town whose old local moniker —  “Troylet” — reflected a long era of post-industrial decline and population loss. During Troy’s 19th century heyday, it was the fourth wealthiest city per capita in the entire country — prosperity generated by iron and steel, and then by manufacturers of bells and detachable shirt collars. Those industries are long gone, but blocks of well-preserved Victorian architecture and slate sidewalks serve as a reminder of the Collar City’s former grandeur, as well as a lure for newcomers looking for a town with good bones. But as the pandemic rages on, much of what made small cities like Troy increasingly attractive places to live threatens to slip away once again. A handful of shops and restaurants have already permanently closed, and money from the federal Paycheck Protection Program is running thin. During the summer, streets filled with outdoor diners and shoppers, but this lifeline is swiftly losing its appeal with winter approaching in the Northeast. Many businesses went into the crisis thinking they could bridge a three-week gap; that was more than seven months ago, with no end in sight. “There’s going to be a huge hit, and in some ways we haven’t seen it yet. So the question is, what’s next?” said Reif Larsen, an author in Troy who recently founded the Future of Small Cities Institute. “It’s more fragile than big cities’ downtowns, because if a couple stores go out, that really affects a block, and that really affects a downtown.” That’s a concern that can be seen in smaller cities nationwide. In Savannah, Georgia, city revenue is down $7.5 million, mostly due to a drop in hotel taxes. Ruston, Louisiana, has cut its budget by $3.5 million, sacrificing infrastructure projects. Plans for a new downtown brewery and hotel in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, are looking more uncertain. “A lot of these smaller cities, their revitalization has focused on being a small town with a downtown, creative retail and restaurant space, and that is just really difficult during a pandemic,” said Jennifer Steinfeld, director of entrepreneurship and economic development at the National League of Cities. “We’re all banking on the hopes that it is not a permanent state of things.” Lockrow is keenly aware of how tenuous Troy’s resurgence is. “If we lose the restaurants, we lose a lot of retail. If one person who runs a retail store doesn’t think that we aren’t part of a bonded thing, they’re wrong. We are.” Despite the pandemic, some economic sectors in Troy appear to be healthier: New apartments are still rising, for example — some now filled by homebound workers fleeing New York City or Boston, which are both about three hours away by car. (But not nearly as many as in New Paltz or Kingston, which are further down the Hudson River.) Rents in the region including Troy have remained steady, and even ticked up slightly, according to Zillow data. But Larsen isn’t betting the town’s future on an influx of remote workers. “I’m not sure that’s going to be a sustainable model for revitalization, and probably wasn’t in the first place,” he said. Instead, Larsen hopes Troy can pursue a more equitable path to economic recovery, one that emphasizes expanded access to affordable housing, food and jobs. Here as elsewhere in the U.S., the pandemic has exposed just how many people were living on the economic margins: The Albany region has lost more than 19,000 jobs in 2020. Nationally, one in four American adults have struggled to pay bills during the pandemic, a figure that is almost double for Black and lower-income Americans. “Smaller communities really have an opportunity to rethink their own approach to land use and housing and think innovatively about the different kinds of housing that people want, not just luxury housing,” says Michael Wallace, legislative director for community and economic development at the National League of Cities. Pursuing those investments will be a challenge for cities whose budgets have been hard hit by Covid-19. Small cities in particular were left out of the $150 billion in CARES Act funding allocated to state and local governments; only 36 cities (all with populations above 500,000) received direct funding. And while a majority of states have now shared some CARES Act money with small municipalities, New York, New Jersey and Rhode Island have yet to do so. In late October, Troy Mayor Patrick Madden announced that 39 local organizations and businesses would be splitting some CARES assistance. “What’s unique about where we’re at right now with Covid, is there's no level of government that’s unaffected,” Wallace said. In the absence of more federal help, some small cities have solicited private donations to form their own loan funds to support small businesses, who could then make good-faith payments to landlords, Wallace said. It’s a bid to triage the delicate balance of downtown commercial space until the economic climate improves. Lockrow, the art store owner, wants anything but to see her block revert back to a row of empty storefronts. And maybe it won’t: Pandemic be damned, a new café will open soon next door, and more luxury apartments are leasing across the street, offering some fleeting reassurance that Troy’s renewal could endure. But with temperatures dropping and a long upstate winter looming, Lockrow wonders what will become of Troy if the human connections — the casual conversations, the bustling farmers market — don’t return in the spring. “The richness of our little downtown is about our people,” she says. Even if some businesses can survive with online sales and takeout orders, that doesn’t make up for the street life lost along the way. “How sad would it be if people were just looking out their windows, tapping on their computers and ordering food in?”