Large swathes of Europe enter lockdown this week as governments conclude tougher action is needed to counter the coronavirus. U.S. cases eased over the weekend after two straight days of national records in the run-up to Tuesday’s election. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s partial lockdown for England might have to be extended if it fails to contain the virus’s spread, one of his top ministers said. China is seeking double tests from travelers from abroad, asking that they supply negative results from both antibody and nucleic acid tests before boarding flights. Friday was the worst day of the pandemic so far, as cases grew by 569,000 worldwide, with the U.S. accounting for more than 99,000 -- a daily record for any nation. The S&P 500 last week fell the most since March as the situation deteriorated. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. China is doubling down on safeguards to ensure people traveling from abroad don’t harbor the coronavirus. Statements posted on websites of Chinese embassies in countries including the U.S., U.K., France, Italy and New Zealand over the weekend ask for negative antibody test results in addition to negative results from nucleic acid tests within 48 hours of boarding flights. The requirement for double negative results will be effective on Nov. 7, according to the statements.While nucleic acid tests can detect the virus on a sample taken from a person’s respiratory track, there’s a chance the result could give a false negative if the viral load where the swab was taken is below the lowest threshold for detection. An antibody test could indicate that a person is in the acute phase of infection when testing positive for IgM antibody, which is the first wave of antibodies generated to fight infection. Prince William contracted Covid-19 in April, around the same time as his father Prince Charles, the BBC reported, citing people familiar within Kensington Palace. Utah’s infections, deaths and hospitalizations all hit a high over the last week. On Sunday, the state reported 1,854 cases, higher than the average daily 1,648 in the worst week of the outbreak so far. Another 10 people died, the third time that number was reached since Wednesday, for a total of 614 fatalities. Utah health officials have warned of possibly rationing medical care. Two large Halloween parties in New York City, attracting almost 1,000 people, were broken up this weekend in violation of anti-virus measures. People in costumes celebrate Halloween in the East Village neighborhood of New York. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Xinhua via Getty Images The city’s sheriff said on Twitter it shut down a party Sunday morning in a Bronx warehouse that attracted more than 550 people. Almost two dozen organizers faced charges. On Saturday, it ended a party at another warehouse in Brooklyn with almost 400 people. Nine organizers were charged. The Supreme Court of Texas denied a Republican effort to render more than 120,000 votes in Harris County invalid because they were cast by drive-thru -- a measure aimed at preventing the spread of Covid-19 while voting. The court made the ruling without comment on Sunday, ahead of a Federal hearing tomorrow. Harris County incorporates the Houston metropolitan area, is home to about 4.7 million people and has a Democratic mayor. The Republican activists’ case argues that drive-thru voting is an illegal extension of curbside voting, which is meant for people who are sick or have a physical disability. Drive-thru voting is a safe, secure, and convenient way to vote.  Texas Election Code allows it, and the Secretary of State approved it.Here are a few other things to know about Drive Thru Voting (a ) North Dakota, ranked with the U.S.’s biggest outbreak per capita, recorded a fourth day with cases more than 1,000. The state reported 1,128 new infections Sunday, a day after hitting a record, as hospitalizations continued to tick up. Health officials have warned the medical system is being overwhelmed. Geneva, a hub of Swiss finance and seat of several United Nations agencies, is closing bars, restaurants, cultural venues and nonessential stores from Monday until Nov. 29, the cantonal government said in a statement. Schools up to the secondary level won’t close. The measures, which are similar to partial lockdowns in many parts of Europe, follow an “alarming” rise in local virus cases, according to the statement. Geneva hospitals had 474 Covid-19 patients on Sunday, compared with 78 in mid-October. Authorities appealed to people to stay home and avoid social contacts. North Carolina, a battleground state in Tuesday’s U.S. election, reported its sixth day of more than 2,000 cases, though Sunday’s number of 2,015 fell from the 2,806 reported Saturday. Cases have been rising since early September from a daily average of less than 1,000, state data show. At the same time, hospitalizations have ticked up only slightly, data from the Covid Tracking Project show. An empty main square during a national lockdown in Lille, France. Photographer: Sylvain Lefevre/Getty Images Infections rose by more than the seven-day trailing average in France, which has accumulated the most cases in Europe. The rate of positive Covid-19 tests, a gauge of the pandemic’s spread, increased to 20.4% in Sunday’s data from 20.2% a day earlier, according to national health agency data. Two days after a nationwide limited lockdown went into effect, France reported 46,290 new cases, more than the average of about 42,000 a day over the previous week. An additional 231 people died from virus-related illness, bringing the toll to 37,019. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo gathered top Black leaders to amplify his concern that the federal plan to distribute a Covid-19 vaccine relies too heavily on chain pharmacies and other institutions lacking in minority neighborhoods. His criticism was echoed in a call with reporters on Sunday by National Urban League President Marc Morial, NAACP President Derrick Johnson and New York State Attorney General Letitia James, who would not rule out litigation as a response. The U.K. reported more than 20,000 cases for a seventh straight day. It had 23,254 new cases on Sunday, a day after the country passed the 1 million mark and announced a four-week partial lockdown for England. The figure compares to the previous seven-day average of 22,522. Another 162 people died, down from the average of 259 in the past week. Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers, whose state is a U.S. election battleground, blamed President Trump’s stance on Covid-19 precautions for helping trigger the state’s spike in cases. Wisconsin’s recent outbreak is one of the most severe in the nation. Tony Evers Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg “We need to do the basic things in Wisconsin and frankly some people aren’t doing them because they’re listening to Donald Trump,” Evers, a Democrat who backs Trump’s challenger Joe Biden, said on CNN on Sunday. “Wear a mask, stay socially distant -- all of this stuff that we know works. And now we’re in the middle of this mess.” Italy reported 29,907 new cases on Sunday, a slight decline from Saturday’s record of 31,758 but amid slower testing on the weekend. The positivity rate continued to increase, with 16 positive cases for every 100 tests. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte is set to update parliament Monday and according to local media is set to sign off on stricter restrictions on Monday that will stop short of a nationwide lockdown. He wants localized curbs depending on virus transmissions -- something some regional authorities are resisting. The White House rebuked top U.S. infectious diseases specialist Anthony Fauci for his recent criticism of the U.S. handling of the pandemic. Fauci said in a Washington Post interview published Saturday night that the U.S. is “in for a whole lot of hurt” from Covid-19, and forecast a rising death toll over the winter. “It’s unacceptable and breaking with all norms for Dr. Fauci, a senior member of the President’s Coronavirus Taskforce and someone who has praised President Trump’s actions throughout this pandemic, to choose three days before an election to play politics,” White House spokesman Judd Deere said in a statement. Anthony Fauci Photographer: Graeme Jennings/Washington Examiner/Bloomberg Fauci told the Post that Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden was taking the virus “seriously from a public health perspective.” The U.S. added 78,157 new cases on Saturday, after two straight days of national records that pushed the daily case count near 100,000. The 0.9% rise matched the average daily increase of the previous seven days, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Average daily cases in the last week of October were about 35,000 higher than in the last week of September, an indication of the virus’s spike at the close of the presidential race. An additional 826 people died, down from the previous day’s 1,029, but in line with average daily increases of the previous week. A medical staff treats a Covid-19 patient at the United Memorial Medical Center in Houston. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images A month-long partial lockdown announced by Prime Minister Boris Johnson late Saturday might have to be extended if it fails to contain the spread of the coronavirus, Cabinet Office Minister Michael Gove said. Johnson said the new restrictions would come into effect on Thursday as virus cases spike and government scientists warn the health system faces being overwhelmed. All but essential shops will close, as will restaurants and bars, though schools and universities will remain open. State payments to furloughed workers will cover of as much as 80% of their wages through the new lockdown period, Johnson said. Boris Johnson: “From Thursday, you must stay at home.” Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland, and Dong Lyu