Photographer: Tolga Akmen/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Tolga Akmen/AFP via Getty Images The posters cut right to the chase. Plastered across the U.K. this autumn, their four words offer passersby a stark warning: time is running out. The new campaign is aimed at getting businesses to prepare for the end of Britain’s transition period with the European Union on Dec. 31. But time is also running short for Britons themselves — already burdened by the economic impacts of Covid-19 — seeking to prepare their own balance sheets for a potentially turbulent departure. “Now you’ve got Brexit with a Covid tilt,” said Rosie Hooper, a London-based chartered financial planner at Quilter, a wealth-management firm. This added unpredictability has left clients anxious and exhausted, she said. As trade negotiations rumble on with the threat of a no-deal scenario hanging overhead, what should people worried about the looming deadline do? Financial advisers, investment experts and lawyers have a few suggestions. One of the biggest immediate changes the end of the transition period could bring to Britons’ lives is the end of freedom of movement. Citizens of EU countries have the right to work and live across the bloc without the need for visas or work permits. During this year’s transition period, those rights continued to apply to U.K. citizens. They will cease after Dec. 31. British citizens who want to move to EU countries, then, have until the end of this year to establish residency. Applications for residency vary across European countries but rules require them to be simple and cheap. Yet after Dec. 31, EU countries will be able to treat U.K. citizens seeking residency in the same way as they do non-EU citizens, who generally face much tougher immigration restrictions. “If you are thinking you’ve always wanted to move to somewhere like Germany or Spain, do it before the 31st of December,” said Lucy Elbourne, an immigration lawyer at North Star Law in London. Four years, two prime ministers and seemingly innumerable Brexit deadlines later, advisers say their clients have largely grown accustomed to financial uncertainty. Many of them have diversified their portfolios so they are less exposed to a downturn in Britain’s economy or a weaker pound. Also read: How to Invest During Brexit? Look Outside the U.K., Fund Managers Say But the finality of the Dec. 31 deadline and the potential chaos of a no-deal scenario is likely to add a lot of noise to markets. Deal or no deal, advisers say investors should try to tune this out, maintaining what Hooper calls “nerves of steel.” One concrete step people struggling with financial anxiety might take is to increase their emergency savings. In normal times, the rule of thumb is to stash away a few months’ salary. Hooper said having an emergency fund today that could last an entire year in the event of a layoff or unforeseen financial challenge may reduce market-related stress. Investors should resist the urge to exit the market if Brexit sends shares downward, she said, adding that “it’s the time in the market, not timing the market.” It may sound morbid, but advisers also said that given the double whammy of a pandemic and Brexit, Britons with assets in Europe — particularly the immovable sort such as property — should make sure they have foreign wills and that they are up to date. “If you have the misfortune of dying on the 1st of January, what rules would apply to your assets are completely unknown,” said Adam Johnson, a financial adviser at New Forest Wealth Management, a subsidiary of St James’s Place. Estate planning across Europe’s jurisdictions can get very complicated, he said. In general, EU citizens are allowed to pick which country’s laws should apply to their inheritance. Given possible uncertainty due to Britain’s departure from the EU, Johnson recommends that if possible before Dec. 31, clients should create wills in jurisdictions where their assets are located. In the new year, those should be updated to take any regulatory changes into account. A number of Johnson’s clients own small businesses, some with only a few employees. He has been encouraging them to prepare for trade disruptions at the end of the year in the event of a no-deal. While many big firms with ample legal resources have been preparing for Brexit for years, one of Johnson’s concerns is that smaller business owners, told that a deal would be struck, have not felt pressure to prepare for a scenario in which that doesn’t happen. “You need to go and look at the government’s information and work out what’s going on in your trade,” said Johnson. He has also been working with clients to make sure their small firms have enough cash reserves on hand to withstand an income shock, be it from a no-deal outcome or another Covid lockdown. It may be weeks before anyone knows what deal Britain and the EU strike, and months before its effects on the economy become clear. What seems likely, according to Hooper, is that the government may at the very least need to rein in tax allowances in order to pay for economic-relief programs. Covid measures alone have cost the government 210 billion pounds ($271 billion) as of Aug. 7, according to the National Audit Office. “The government is going to need all the money it can get,” said Hooper. “It’s not going to get any more generous.” So she recommends maxing out tax-preferred accounts such as ISAs, which this year allow users to deposit up to 20,000 pounds. Parents can also put as much as 9,000 pounds in junior ISAs for children under the age of 18. Finally, Hooper said Britons reevaluating their economic prospects should be honest and open about possibly needing to change some of their fundamental aspirations. In the immediate aftermath of the Brexit vote, Hooper said clients tended to ask specific questions about the movement of markets and the performance of their funds. She said the narrative has changed now. Her clients are really starting to rethink some of their goals. The end of freedom of movement and health-care reciprocity means, for instance, that retiring in the EU will likely be more difficult after Brexit. Other clients may be reassessing why they want to stay in London at all. On these big lifestyle changes, Hooper said families need to be transparent about their reconfigured goals. And they need to stay on top of them. “Having a plan to follow and measure your progression is key,” she said.