At first, the nation could barely take its eyes off of Detroit, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Phoenix and Milwaukee, as their record number of votes were carefully tallied. In the aftermath of the historic U.S. presidential election, several political commentators rightly credited the role of Black and brown voters in the cities of key states in bringing home the win for Democrats, and possibly the Senate. But in the torturous five days after the election, people also learned how to pronounce Gwinnett County — one of America’s most diverse suburbs — after having watched Black, Latinx and Asian Americans wait in hours-long lines to vote outside strip malls in Georgia. They pulled out maps to locate Bucks and Lackawanna counties in Pennsylvania. It was not just Black and brown cities in swing states that brought Democrats their victories; it was also their suburbs. Across the nation, suburbs moved further blue than in 2016, particularly in key battleground states. Republicans and Democrats understood the math. Most Americans are suburbanites, and most voters are too. But in an increasingly divided nation between Democratic strongholds in cities and conservative rural Republicans, suburbia has taken on heightened importance as the land of swing voters. In the battle for that critical turf, Trump’s suburban strategy failed. A critical misstep was to ignore the diversity of suburban voters. In 2016, suburbanites swung towards Trump by five points, and White suburban women played a key role in handing Trump the win. But after 2016, suburbs started to swing in the other direction. In the 2018 midterm elections, Democrats picked up 33 House seats, many of them in suburban districts in key red states with a large share of Black and brown voters.   In the run-up to the election, Trump had lost ground in the suburbs, with some polls showing losses of up to 25 points, particularly among White women. He aggressively tried to woo them back. His tactics were typical Trump — crude, crass and built on a platform of racist scapegoating, fear and lies. In tweets, press briefings, rallies and an op-ed he penned with Ben Carson, Trump spoke incessantly about a Democratic conspiracy to bring low-income housing to suburbs that would increase crime and lower property values. He claimed Biden’s plan was to “abolish the suburbs” and destroy their “suburban lifestyle dream,” referring to the Obama-era policy meant to strengthen enforcement of the Fair Housing Act, which the Trump administration abandoned. He attacked Democratic mayors and Black senators, including those in swing states, suggesting their failed policies were bringing “urban” problems to the suburbs. He demeaned suburban women, repeatedly referring to them as “housewives.” And he invited Mark and Patricia McCloskey, the St. Louis couple who trained guns on Black Lives Matter protesters in defense of their palatial home, to participate in campaign events and the Republican National Convention. While the majority of White women voted for Trump in 2020, even more so than in 2016, pre-election polling suggested that suburban women were likely to be among his largest defectors. There are likely a number of a reasons for this, but one of them is that Trump’s strategy fundamentally misunderstood the suburbanites he was talking to. Many White suburbanites already had Black and brown neighbors that Trump told them to fear, shared similar concerns around the lives lost to Covid-19, and had protests over anti-Black police violence happening right outside their doorsteps. Many were unconvinced that low-income housing would result in crime or falling property values and supported racially integrated neighborhoods. In the battleground suburbs of Minneapolis and Wisconsin, polls showed that White women were not particularly concerned about affordable housing in their backyards. In the Philadelphia suburbs, Trump’s rhetoric on race galvanized White suburban women to organize against him. In Portland, White suburban moms and dads came out with leaf blowers to keep police from attacking Black and brown protesters. Perhaps more importantly, the suburbs included Black and brown voters that Trump almost completely ignored. In the last several decades, suburbs became a closer reflection of America than cities or rural towns. The suburbs are not the homogenous, postwar “Leave it to Beaver” neighborhoods that Trump seemed to be speaking to. Suburbs have always been diverse, and become more so in recent decades. They include immigrants and struggling single moms, but also young, gay and childless Americans. By 2010, in most major metropolitan areas, the majority of immigrants, people living in poverty and people of color lived in suburbs. Suburbanites of color live in more racially diverse communities than their urban counterparts, though not quite in the integrated communities that Biden portrayed in the presidential debates. While disproportionately located in inner-ring suburbs like Ferguson, Missouri, where Michael Brown was murdered by police and Black Lives Matter became an international movement, they also made steady gains in suburbs farther out that typically trended red. Trump’s strategy fundamentally misunderstood the suburbanites he was talking to. Democrats’ success lay in mobilizing suburbanites of color. In 2020, Black and brown voters turned out in record numbers for Democrats, outpacing gains among White voters. But the tide of the election pivoted on their turnout in cities and particularly the suburbs of battleground states. Wisconsin and Michigan flipped from red to blue with record turnout in major cities and suburbs, foreshadowing a trend that would gain momentum in the days that followed. Around Detroit, the Blackest city in America, Biden picked up votes in suburbs like Oakland County that, while majority White, have shifted demographically towards younger, more educated and racially diverse residents. The suburban revolt continued through Sun Belt suburbs of Nevada and Arizona where Latinx and Indigenous communities helped to deliver the win for Biden. In Arizona, which had not supported a Democratic candidate for president since 1996, Biden received increased support from suburban voters, particularly Mexican immigrants. Even as Trump gained a small share of the Latinx vote nationally, their unprecedented turnout was the real story. In the Phoenix suburbs, organizing among young Latinx activists who opposed state and federal anti-immigrant policies drove turnout and helped to turn the state blue. Finally, Saturday came with news that Pennsylvania had flipped, in large part due to unprecedented turnout in suburbs of Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and Biden’s hometown of Scranton. Philadelphia’s four surrounding “collar” counties all saw a surge of Democratic support, as did Erie County outside Pittsburgh, a blue-collar region that flipped to Biden. The biggest story was and continues to be Georgia, where Biden is on track to be the first Democrat to win the presidential vote in nearly 30 years. Biden won a larger share of the suburban vote than Hillary Clinton, with the most significant gains in Atlanta’s diverse suburbs. Organizations like Fair Fight and New Georgia Project, both founded by Stacey Abrams who nearly won the governorship in 2018, motivated new Black and brown voters and likely played a key role in flipping critical suburban areas. These organizers understood that while the state’s demographics had changed, its conservative politics did not reflect that reality, particularly in the suburbs. By tapping new young, immigrant and disaffected voters of color and combating voter suppression, their diverse coalition set the state up to deal a deafening blow to Republicans. So yes, Black and brown voters deserve credit for evicting a neofascist from the White House. But Democrats cannot, like Trump, stereotype them as “urban” voters when most live in suburbs. Black and brown suburbanites face a range of issues that urban policymakers often miss. Many live in communities with mounting issues of infrastructure decline, underfunded schools, crime and poverty rates, but have a shrinking tax base. Others live in gentrifying neighborhoods with rising rents, foreclosures and evictions, but lack tenant and affordable housing protections. Many struggle to access public transit, affordable health care and social services that have not moved to suburbs as quickly as those that most need them. Some face fierce anti-immigrant crackdowns and police violence. All struggle with an economic and public health crisis that has hit Black and brown communities the hardest. If President-Elect Biden  “has the backs” of Black Americans, as he claimed in his acceptance speech, he owes it them and others that brought him to office to build a policy agenda that addresses the diversity of their needs and interests. Willow Lung-Amam, is Associate Professor of Urban Studies and Planning and Director of Community Development at the National Center for Smart Growth at University of Maryland, College Park. She is the author of Trespassers?: Asian American and the Battle for Suburbia, and a forthcoming book on redevelopment politics in the Washington, DC suburbs.