A minute before midnight, with Hungarians on edge to find out how a pandemic lockdown would upend their lives, Prime Minister Viktor Orban pulled another one of his trademark legislative surprises. In an unexpected rush of activity, Orban’s government moved to change the electoral law, enshrine Christian religious doctrine on gender and marriage in the constitution, temporarily ban demonstrations, revamp court procedures and loosen rules governing public funds. “Orban is once again using the virus as a cover to pass measures to cement his power, institutionalize the funneling of public funds to allies and limit the chances of the opposition in the next election,” said Andras Biro-Nagy, director of Policy Solutions, a think-tank in Budapest. Read more: Hungary to Enshrine Religious Gender Doctrine Into Constitution A decade into his increasingly authoritarian rule, the Hungarian leader has come under pressure over his management of the coronavirus pandemic with one of the more relaxed approaches in Europe. A few hours before the legislative barrage, he conceded that a surge in infections meant that without the new measures there would have been a 50% chance the health-care system will collapse. As a result, ever-tougher curbs look inevitable, with a deep economic hit likely to follow. That may boost Orban’s opposition, already ascendant after unifying against him to win success in local elections. The rules proposed overnight would effectively limit the ways parties can band together. The timing of the bills, just as a state of danger took effect, was reminiscent of measures Orban approved during the first pandemic emergency, when the government classified a $2.1 billion rail contract funded by China and expanded state control over theaters, among other moves. Read more: Hungary Plans to Tighten Election Rules for Smaller Parties The measures are also a sign of defiance toward heightened scrutiny by the European Union. Orban has pledged to effectively veto the bloc’s 1.8 trillion-euro ($2 billion) spending plan, which attempts to tie funding to rule-of-law conditions. The Hungarian government -- already under an EU probe over suspected corruption and the erosion of democratic standards -- is concerned it will lose access to billions of euros in annual funding just as the virus devastates the economy.