Paga founder and CEO Tayo Oviosu in 2018. What problems do you hope to solve during your six-year term?My slogan for the city is innovation and rights. I want to expand access to rights—not only education, health, but also culture and sports. I also want to improve the environment in the poorest parts of the city. The city is very unequal, and if you want to reduce violence, you have to reduce inequalities. Can you give some specific examples of how you do that?On the east side of the city you have 1 square meter of green area per person, and on the west there are 10 square meters per person. We have built around 10 new parks in the city. We’ve planted about 10 million plants and trees. We’ve rescued two rivers that were contaminated with sewage. Your administration has set a goal of reducing air pollution by 30%. How do you intend to do that?We want to be the city with the biggest electromobility program, but we are building that with trolleys, not electric buses. We’re going to have 500 trolleys in the city. How are you going to pay for all of this?Benito Juárez once said “you cannot have a rich government and a poor people.” Where do you get the money? You get it by shrinking government. And the other thing is stopping corruption. Has the pandemic set back some of your plans?Covid hit Mexico City very, very hard. We are a city of 10 million that is part of a metropolitan area of 22 million people. Most of the important projects are going to be developed. We thought some would be completed by the end of 2020, and now it probably won’t be till 2021. My team knows that we can sacrifice other things, but not what we offer to the people. How do you balance your background as a scientist with your dedication to politics?I think politics has to be part of everybody’s life. There are many issues where I agree with not only [Mexican President] López Obrador but also with what Morena [the ruling party] stands for. We agree that you cannot sell your oil, your resources, because you lose part of your sovereignty. We believe Mexico has a great future if we end corruption. And we believe that education, health, and housing are basic rights. —Interviewed by Nacha Cattan You are trained as a doctor. What prompted you to become an entrepreneur?One catalyst was that I lost my father to an unnecessary surgery in a very expensive, big hospital. Then you realize that the problem of health care being broken is not just for the poor and the underserved. It’s everywhere. What part of this broken system are you trying to fix?In India, 28% of the population did not have access to a doctor. In the rural areas, in the remote areas, clearly there is the challenge that doctors are not available, that facilities may not be available, and people may have less money. So doctors migrate and start practicing in larger hospitals in bigger cities. We said let’s see if we can create a better model—something that can meet clinical outcomes as well as being affordable. What’s the solution your startup came up with?What we have done is taken the examining room, the test lab, and the pharmacy and put them together into a single whole. This brings down the cost in terms of money and time. Our latest innovation, called HelloLyf, is 64 square feet and can be installed anywhere. Can you explain how the concept works in practice?There is no physical doctor, only a nurse who runs you through the whole system. I, the doctor, may be sitting in Bangalore and the patient is in Odisha, but today’s technology allows you to use rich video to carry out an examination. Our clinics are equipped with a digital stethoscope, a laryngoscope, a fetal Doppler. The quantity of medical data is huge, it’s vast. So we built a clinical decision-support system that basically ensures doctors are able to do better diagnoses. Drug interactions, dosages, contraindications are sorted out, and doctors can focus on the patient rather than trying to think through the data. Finally, the pharmacy is automated to dispense medications. For the equivalent of about $4, you get a doctor, your tests, and your medications. And what kind of reception have your 240 clinics gotten?In India and other poor countries, health care is only sought for the wage earner. The old, the women, and the children, they are neglected. Almost 50% of our patients are women, which means we have increased the equity in society. —Interviewed by Pradipta Mukherjee What problem or problems was Paga designed to solve?I hate carrying cash. I’m that friend that shows up at the restaurant, and I don’t have cash. If they don’t take the card, we’re done. And so when I moved back to Nigeria after studying and working in the U.S., I was like, “Wow, this is a huge problem. There’s got to be a better way than for me to have to carry wads of cash when I want to go out.” Often, the ATMs are not working. And there are only like 5,000 ATMs outside of a bank branch in Nigeria. And point-of-sale machines, many times there are issues, and they’re not working properly. So I was like, “There’s got to be a way to pay using your mobile phone or any internet-connected device.” So how does Paga work?With Paga, you can send money to anyone in Nigeria using your mobile phone number. You can pay any utility bill like your electricity, your television, or buy airtime or data. You can send money to any bank in Nigeria. You can do this either on a smartphone or a dumb phone. We work across all mobile networks, and we partner with the banks. I tell people to think of it like we’re Square or PayPal for emerging markets. What were some of the initial challenges in starting Paga?The epiphany I had was that for us to reach the mass market, we had to build a network of what we call agents. These are mom and pops, pharmacies, grocery stores—people in the local community who are trusted. And so we had to go door to door, building out this distribution network. We now have 26,000 agents. They have a Paga sign outside, and I can go in and say, “Hey, I want to send $50 to my mom. Here’s her phone number or here’s her bank account number.” Do you have plans to expand into other markets?We’re very excited about what we’ve achieved in Nigeria, where we have 16 million users so far. Mexico is the next market where we’re launching, and it’s actually amazingly similar to Nigeria. It’s the 15th-largest economy in the world, but 90% of Mexicans don’t even save in a formal financial institution. And everyone’s using cash. We’re also launching in Ethiopia, where we actually already have a team of about 60 people. It’s the second-largest country in Africa by population. We’re playing the long game there. —Interviewed by Jed Rosenberg You’ve been devoted to the cause of climate change for many years. What has motivated you?I have worked in the fields of environmental protection, emissions reduction, climate change, and sustainable development for more than 40 years, so my understanding of these issues has become more and more profound. At the very beginning, you might say that this is a profession. But after a while, you see that if you do this work well, you will benefit humanity. At the most recent United Nations General Assembly, China announced a plan to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. Can you tell us more about that?President Xi said that as countries work to restore economic health after the pandemic, leaders should set their sights on a green, high-quality recovery. It is very difficult or even impossible to achieve this goal using traditional production methods and traditional technologies. We must innovate, we must transform, and we must accelerate the transformation. Do you believe China and the U.S. can once again cooperate on climate in the future?The U.S. federal government withdrew [from the Paris Agreement]. But we have never lost contact with local governments, universities, and companies in the United States. We have always maintained good cooperation with very good results. So at this point, regardless of the domestic situation in the United States, we are always willing to cooperate with the United States on this issue. You were China’s chief climate negotiator for many years. What skills did you bring to the job?If you are a negotiator and do not defend your own national interests, everyone will look down on you. You have to find a balance between safeguarding national interests and advancing the global process. The key is to arrive at a final result that is acceptable to everyone. Everyone may not be satisfied, but everyone can accept it. At this point, I have negotiated for more than 10 years. I was the head of the delegation and had many opponents, but they are all my friends. We are still in touch. —Interviewed by Li Jing and Lucille Liu