\ Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images Coronavirus deaths and new infections worldwide surged by daily records, almost one year after the disease emerged, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. China suspended entry by U.K. nationals with valid visas because of the pandemic. England entered a four-week lockdown after Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned of “mortality on a grievous scale” without urgent action. Greece is due to announce new measures Thursday to fight the virus. Covid-19 continued to rage in America with close to 100,000 new infections. Wisconsin reported record cases and said its hospitals are almost full. Daily infections reached a five-month high in New Jersey, and Texas had the most new cases since August. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. 10 U.S. states where Covid-19 inpatient numbers surged since Oct. 30 Source: HHS Protect Public Data Hub  India reported 50,210 new infections Thursday, the first time in 10 days that cases have topped 50,000. Daily infections have dropped from a peak of more than 97,000 in mid-September, but a rise in cases is expected as India kicks off its festival season -- culminating in Diwali on Nov. 14. Total cases in India are at 8.36 million, the second-highest globally behind the U.S., while the country’s death toll rose to 124,315 as of Thursday. Daily coronavirus deaths worldwide set a new record of more than 10,000, while global infections passed 600,000 in a day for the first time as the pandemic gathered pace, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Infections in Japan’s northern-most prefecture Hokkaido, where cases have spiked since October, may break through 100 for the first time today, according to local broadcaster FNN. Hokkaido’s governor and the mayor for the prefecture’s biggest city met Wednesday to discuss possible restrictions, such as asking restaurants in the city’s nightlife district to shorten operating hours in exchange for subsidies, FNN reported. A Covid-19 safety instructions outside a pachinko parlor in Sapporo. The number of cases in Hokkaido may surpass 100. Photographer: Kentaro Takahashi/Bloomberg China will temporarily suspend entry by non-Chinese U.K. nationals who hold valid visas or residence permits, the Chinese Embassy in the U.K. said in a statement. The suspension is in response to the Covid-19 outbreak and will be assessed as it evolves, the embassy said. Entry by holders of diplomatic, service or C visas won’t be affected, it said. Denver is considering “more tools to restrict gatherings and avoid a stay-at-home order,” said Theresa Marchetta, spokeswoman for Denver Mayor Michael Hancock. “It’s safe to say everything is on the table.” Pueblo, the ninth-largest city in Colorado, last week imposed a two-week, overnight curfew. The U.K. is expected to unveil details of a wage support program Thursday, amid calls for more generous help for people who can’t work due to coronavirus restrictions. The Treasury announced Saturday it would extend furlough payments at 80% of employee wages until Dec. 2 to support workers during a second lockdown that starts Thursday. Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak is due to announce further extending the program beyond Dec. 2 in areas under the highest levels of restrictions, the Sun newspaper said. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the government has reached agreements for Novavax Inc. to supply 40 million vaccine doses and a Pfizer/BioNTech partnership to provide 10 million vaccine doses. The agreements mean that Australia has now secured access to four Covid-19 vaccines and more than 134 million doses, with total investment of A$3.2 billion ($2.3 billion). Texas recorded more than 9,000 new cases in a 24-hour period, the steepest daily increase since Aug. 4, according to state health department figures. The jump pushed the cumulative total to 926,400. More than 18,000 Texans have perished from the virus. Statewide, hospitalizations hovered just below 6,000 -- an 84% surge in the past month, the data showed. The strain on medical centers and emergency field hospitals continues to worsen in the hotspots of El Paso, Lubbock, Amarillo and Laredo. A Covid-19 patient being treated in Houston. hospitalizations hovered just below 6,000 -- an 84% surge in the past month. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images Covid-19 continues to spread rapidly across the U.S. Midwest, resulting in rising infection rates and increased stress on medical services. Wisconsin recorded a record 5,935 new cases on Wednesday. Neighboring Illinois reported 7,538 infections within the last 24 hours. “Hospitals are at or near capacity and their options are limited when it comes to the need for more beds and admissions,” Andrea Palm, secretary designee of the Wisconsin Department of Health Services, told reporters on Wednesday. “We are in a crisis in this state.” Italy targeted the financial capital of Milan and key industrial hubs in the north with a set of tough new restrictions. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said Wednesday that the northern region of Lombardy around Milan, as well as Piedmont and its capital Turin, fall into the country’s highest-risk zones. That will trigger measures restricting people to the cities and towns where they live starting Friday. Unlike last spring’s national lockdown, industrial operations will remain open even in the worst-hit zones in an attempt to shield the economy. The new decree runs from Friday to Dec. 3, with the toughest restrictions imposed for a period of at least 15 days. A patient inside a Covid-19 unit at the Centre Hospitalier de l’Europe near Paris. The country reported 385 coronavirus deaths on Wednesday. Photographer: Anne-Christine Poujoulat/AFP/Getty Images France reported an additional 385 coronavirus deaths on Wednesday, while the use rate of intensive-care unit beds reached the highest level since late April. Confirmed infections increased by 40,558 to 1.54 million, French health authorities reported. The seven-day average of new cases, which smooths out weekly fluctuations, rose to 44,027. Greece is heading to a national lockdown after reporting Wednesday 2,646 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, a second-straight daily record increase. Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis met with medical advisers Wednesday and will make announcements Thursday on national TV on confronting the virus. Experts advised the government to impose a national lockdown for 30 days and the premier will “take health experts’ proposals into account,” Health Minister Vasilis Kikilias said in an interview with ANT1 TV. Greece also reported 18 more deaths in the past 24 hours, while the occupancy rate of intensive-care units stands at 63%. A closed cafe in Athens, on Tuesday. The country is heading to a national lockdown after reporting more than 2,600 new cases yesterday. Photographer: Nikolas Kokovlis/NurPhoto via Getty Images — With assistance by Angus Whitley, and Vincent Del Giudice