Asian stocks looked poised for gains Tuesday after a large-scale coronavirus vaccine study delivered the most-promising results in the battle against the worst pandemic in a century. Bonds and other haven assets tumbled. Futures indicated gains of at least 1% in Japan, Australia and Hong Kong. The S&P 500 Index closed at a two-month high amid strong volume on news the coronavirus shot being developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE prevented over 90% of infections. The Nasdaq 100 fell as investors rotated out of defensive technology names into shares depressed by the economic impact of lockdowns. Still, the broader U.S. stock gauge pared gains on concern that lawmakers will pass a smaller stimulus package. Elsewhere, yields on 10-year Treasuries soared to the highest since March. A measure of credit-market risk eased to pre-pandemic levels. Oil surged, while gold, the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc slumped. The dollar rose. Still, the Federal Reserve warned that asset prices in key markets could take a hit if the coronavirus pandemic’s economic impact worsens in coming months. Investors pulled out of defensive assets and poured cash into markets that are closely tied to economic growth, with the value of the MSCI All Country Index jumping by as much as $1.8 trillion after the latest vaccine developments. The top infectious disease expert in the U.S., Anthony Fauci, said the shot being developed by Pfizer will have a “major impact” on everything we do with regards to Covid-19 going forward. News of the vaccine’s potential success came as the U.S. surpassed 10 million Covid-19 cases on Monday and appeared poised to hit record hospitalizations later this week. President-elect Joe Biden warned the U.S. faced a “dark winter” and announced a new coronavirus task force as his transition team seeks to fulfill a campaign promise to contain the outbreak. The U.S. election outcome and Pfizer’s vaccine breakthrough means “the two biggest risk events seem to be off the table,” said Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda. “Asia stocks will soar at the open as optimism grows for the global economic recovery to accelerate despite the northern hemisphere’s current battle with Covid-19.” Andrew Sheets, chief cross-asset strategist at Morgan Stanley, discusses the rally in stocks after promising results were reported in a coronavirus vaccine study. Source: Bloomberg These are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Rita Nazareth, and Vildana Hajric