The property market is running red hot in small-town Australia. Buyers are snapping up houses — sometimes sight unseen — as city folk bet the era of working in an office fulltime won’t return. That's filling some locals with horror. Primary school teacher Amy Muratore from Upwey, a leafy, sleepy mountainside village about a 50 minutes drive east of central Melbourne, is one of those seeing the changes first hand. Like other desirable semi-rural locations, Upwey’s popularity has jumped. Buyers are snatching up three-bedroom houses within two weeks of listing and prices are up 8.8% this year, according to data from real estate site Domain. Muratore’s fear is that the community’s infrastructure will be overwhelmed. She’s worried about growing pressure to weaken local planning laws and increase the number of homes without a corresponding increase in funding. “This place is paradise. We understand why people want to enjoy what we enjoy about it,” Muratore said. “But not respecting the natural integrity we’re trying to preserve can have significant and irreversible impact.” There’s also the fear about what more people might mean for evacuation practicalities in the next bad wildfire season. “We’re on a mountain, surrounded by forest, one road in and one road out,” Muratore said.  “On catastrophic days, this has the potential to end in tragedy.” Upwey — and indeed Australia — is far from the only place feeling the strain. Properties in rural U.K. areas have surged in popularity this year, especially compared with London. They range from locations in Inverness in the Scottish Highlands to coastal areas in England’s southwest, including  Devon and Cornwall. According to the property website Rightmove, homes in London have been the slowest to sell while — at least earlier this year — Scotland’s sold fastest, with  26% selling within seven days. In the U.S., property prices in more spacious enclaves such as Lake Tahoe and Westchester County are booming, too. The median price of single-family homes that changed hands in Westchester in the third quarter jumped  16% from a year earlier to $808,500, the highest in data going back to 1986, according to a report by appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and brokerage Douglas Elliman Real Estate. Whereas, say, a few hundred people moving into a big city is a drop in the ocean, the effects can be immediately felt in smaller communities. Australians are voting with their feet and moving further out Source: Australian Bureau of Statistics, Bloomberg  The signs from Australia, where the virus has largely been suppressed and normal activities are possible in most cities, is that this trend isn’t just hype. The country’s major cities saw their biggest quarterly net loss of population on record in the June quarter. Long-running tensions about holiday-home owners driving up prices are morphing into concerns about coping with larger permanent populations — whether that’s road upgrades, health services or school places. Karl Fitzgerald is in the unique position of seeing these changes both personally and as a policy expert. Fitzgerald, director of research at campaigning think-tank Prosper Australia, moved his family to the pretty Victorian town of Malmsbury four years ago. They bought a six-bedroom, hand-built stone house on 27 acres for A$630,000 ($464,000).  Since then, prices have jumped. Median house prices are up A$100,000 since 2019, according to Domain data. He’s concerned that the government isn’t adequately planning for the likely economic and social impacts of the shift — especially around housing. “Very few councils have an affordability policy, ” Fitzgerald said. “The highest bidder wins wherever you look.” Current beneficiaries in Malmsbury are Airbnb investors who are now offloading their properties on the Covid-flight market and “making an absolute killing,” he said. When it comes to capital growth in Covid, the regions are outperforming Source: Corelogic Note: Capital growth March to Oct. 2020 Nearly 2,000 kilometres away in sunny Bundaberg on the Queensland coast, the same pattern is playing out.  Buyers with city money have descended on the town, best known for its rum and ginger beer factory, where you can still buy a three-bedroom for under A$300,000. They take “virtual tours” and purchase properties sight-unseen. “It’s unprecedented,” local agent Kurt Dempsey from Michaels Real Estate said. “There are 30 percent less homes in our market at the moment, with buyers in the pocket, ready to go.” Health services get thinner the further away you go from a major city Source: Australian Department of Health Note: Data for major cities, inner and outer regional areas. This movement is not just affecting the sales market. Demand is driving up rents; the vacancy rate is next to nothing. Dempsey says there are 20 applications for every new Bundaberg rental listed. Developers, of course, may see an opportunity to build more properties in regional areas. That idea is often met with a grimace from locals who fear city-level density — without city-level amenities. That’s one of the reasons making the move isn’t a one way street. Writer Karen Pickering is a reverse relocator. Drawn by cheaper rents, she moved to Ballarat, a former gold-mining town where properties are about 40% cheaper than Melbourne two years ago. Then she moved back to Melbourne. Discovering her young son, Harry, had a disability made staying in the region untenable, Pickering said. “I couldn’t get an appointment with a GP or a psychologist that was taking patients,” says Pickering. “Once we realized the extent of Harry’s disability and how much early intervention he would need, we were looking at waiting lists of two or three years for things that he needed, like, yesterday — speech pathology, occupational therapy, child psychologists." She discovered, too, that the economic benefits of the move were offset by unexpected costs. It wasn’t just the financial expense of driving her son to specialist appointments in the city; the travelling cost her time, as well. Although Pickering mostly works from home, she had meetings and work events in the city and interstate that became more expensive and difficult to schedule. “So many of my friends are now talking about moving to the country,” Pickering said. “People get stars in their eyes when they look at the house prices, but there’s a lot more to factor in.”