Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny, who survived an assassination attempt in August that he blamed on the Kremlin, called on the European Union to impose sanctions on billionaire oligarchs including Chelsea soccer club owner Roman Abramovich. Navalny told members of the European Parliament on Friday that targeting only officials linked to the attack using a weapons-grade nerve agent won’t have any impact on the Russian leadership. Instead, the EU should impose travel bans and asset freezes on Abramovich and other tycoons close to President Vladimir Putin, such as Alisher Usmanov, he said. Alexey Navalny Photographer: Dmitry Serebryakov/AFP/Getty Images “Until the most expensive yacht of Mr. Usmanov stands in Barcelona or Monaco, no one in Russia or the Kremlin will treat European sanctions seriously,” Navalny said in a video link-up with the Strasbourg-based assembly’s foreign affairs committee. “The European Union should target the money, Russian oligarchs.” The 27-nation bloc in October sanctioned six officials over the Navalny poisoning including Aleksandr Bortnikov, head of Russia’s domestic spy agency, and Sergei Kiriyenko, first deputy chief of staff in the presidential administration. “I would say there is no sense to sanction colonels or generals or some people who definitely don’t travel a lot all over the world and definitely don’t have a lot of real estate or bank accounts in Europe,” Navalny said. Navalny has built a following of millions with online exposes targeting high-level corruption in Russia, and he’s previously called for sanctions against Putin’s circle. Usmanov got into a video spat with Navalny from his 156-meter yacht in 2017 over an investigation into donations to a fund benefiting then-Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. The billionaire later won a defamation suit against Navalny. Spokespeople for Usmanov and Abramovich declined to comment. The European punitive measures over Navalny mark the latest in a series of EU-Russia disputes including Moscow’s annexation of Ukraine’s Crimea peninsula and military backing for Ukrainian separatists in 2014 and the 2018 poisoning of a former Russian double agent on U.K. soil. Six years ago, as part of a larger package of sanctions imposed over Russian aggression against Ukraine, the EU blacklisted some oligarchs close to the Kremlin. The EU acted against Russia after the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, a global watchdog, confirmed that Navalny was poisoned by the Novichok chemical nerve-agent on Aug. 20 when he was campaigning for anti-Putin candidates in Siberia. He was later flown to Germany for treatment. The Kremlin has denied any involvement in the attack, with some officials suggesting Navalny was poisoned on the way to Germany or on German soil.