Burned trees in Berry Creek, California, in September. While the wildfires in the West have burned a record number of acres this year, pockets of well-managed forest have managed to survive. Photographer: Brian van der Brug/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Photographer: Brian van der Brug/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Within days of sparking on Sept. 4, California’s Creek Fire was powerful enough to produce its own pyrocumulonimbus — a thunderhead of wind, rain, smoke and fire. The mushroom-cloud-like plume was the largest ever seen in the U.S., a monumental illustration of a catastrophic fire season and of the scale of loss below: tens of thousands of acres burning in the Sierra National Forest, at the southern end of the mountains John Muir called the Range of Light. Now the largest single-ignition fire in state history, the Creek Fire is still burning, consuming huge swaths of that mixed-conifer landscape every day, at one point traveling an unprecedented 15 miles in one day. But a few rare spots have been spared. One is a cut of land just east and south of Shaver Lake, a popular recreation spot: There, flames dropped from the canopy and moved along the surface, charring the bases of trees but leaving most intact and alive. It is a stark contrast with the nearly 400,000 acres of forest to the north and west that have burned so severely that much of the landscape, said Kent Duysen, the owner of a nearby sawmill, looks like a “nuclear site.” What made these lands endure? Around Shaver Lake, years of strategic tree-thinning and prescribed burning by forward-thinking foresters likely made the difference. Forests overcrowded with younger, thinner trees and brush make for highly combustible fuel. To stand up to wildfires, roughly 14 million acres of forestland in California need restoration, according to the California Natural Resources Agency. “It’s because of the fuel reduction we did. That was the only reason that those lands survived,” said John Mount, a retired forester for Southern California Edison, the utility that owns 20,000 acres in the Sierra National Forest, including the section that largely withstood destruction. For three decades, Mount treated that land with targeted logging and carefully controlled burns, long before there was widespread scientific consensus that there was such a thing as “good” fires — and that they could help prevent the bad. As wildfire season consumes millions of acres on the West Coast, destroying thousands of homes and buildings and displacing tens of thousands of residents, forest management has become a subject of intense scrutiny. President Donald Trump has repeatedly claimed that California ought to “rake” its forests better to prevent fires (though a majority of the state’s woodlands are federally managed), while former vice president Joe Biden has cited the impact of climate change. In truth, the roots of this year’s wildfire disaster go back more than a century, with blame running in many directions. Malcolm North, a forest ecology researcher at the U.S. Forest Service and professor at University of California Davis, singles out one important factor: Fire suppression policies have long prevented naturally occurring wildfires from reducing young trees and surface growth, leading to “sick” forests clogged with excess fuel. Add to that the loss of the old-growth forests and their replacement with plantation-like stands of trees planted by timber companies. That left woodlands more prone to conflagration, since thicker-diameter trees tend to stand up to flames better. Climate-change-driven drought, meanwhile, has dried up West Coast forests, making them vulnerable to lethal bark beetles that killed off 147 million trees and turned tens of thousands of acres into tinder — an unprecedented mortality event that jet-fueled the Creek Fire. By reducing resource competition, Mount’s treatments also likely helped the woods fend off those threats in the first place. That’s part of why there may be hope on the edge of Shaver Lake, and in an area to the south and east of it known as the Dinkey Landscape Restoration Project. Over a decade, about $9 million of federal, local, and private resources have poured into turning 154,000 acres of overgrown conifers, hardwoods and chaparral into a healthier, more sustainable landscape by balancing ecological imperatives, industry interests, and human recreation. The effort has not produced perfect results, and they aren't the answer for every forest. But a number of experts see projects like this as a glimpse into a future where California’s woods might better withstand the fast winds and hot temperatures that drove this explosive year — and where old conflicts over the trees could turn into cooperation. “We’re closer to having and understanding the same vision than ever,” said Craig Thomas, the director of the Fire Restoration Group, a nonprofit focused on managing forests with fire. “Now I count as friends the people I used to growl at.” To understand why that detente between forest adversaries is such a remarkable turn of events, you have to go back to the early 1990s, when environmentalists waged a bitter battle to save America’s trees. Some 80% of old-growth conifers — the kind that Muir called a “magic wand in Nature's hand” — had vanished from the Sierra Nevada range. The U.S. Forest Service had sold some 700,000 acres of the ancient trees to logging companies in the preceding decade alone, according to a 1991 investigation by the New York Times. To stem the damage to ecosystems and species like the spotted owl and pacific fisher, activists from environmental groups like Earth First! chained themselves to bulldozers and climbed into the canopy, engaging in marathon tree-sitting protests. The Sierra Club and the Center for Biological Diversity filed challenges and lawsuits under the National Environmental Policy Act to block the Forest Service from issuing logging permits. “It was war,” says Thomas, in those days the outspoken leader of Friends Aware of Wildlife Needs, or FAWN, a small group that alone halted 24 timber sales on the Eldorado National Forest in the northern Sierra Nevada by wielding environmental law. The backlash was nasty. When a cascade of sawmill closures resulted in job losses, the logging industry and its advocates laid blame on “eco-fascists.” At a 1994 rally calling for one Northern California mill to be saved, a dummy dressed in a T-shirt that read “FAWN” dangled on a noose. “It was pretty contentious,” says Duysen, the president of Sierra Forest Products, one of the last remaining mills in the southern Sierras. By one important measure, the environmentalists won the timber war: Timber harvests have declined steadily since the 1990s. But that victory turned out to be mixed. Forests don’t grow or evolve on a “locked trajectory, but on a complicated ecological process,” says North. Litigation and environmental challenges that slowed timber harvests also hamstrung tree-thinning projects aimed at restoring the woods. Some laws aimed at protecting wildlife habitats favored dense canopies, contributing to overgrowth in places. And the Forest Service was understaffed to handle a growing and sometimes conflicting set of directives. By the 2000s, ex-FAWN leader Thomas was the executive director of Sierra Forest Legacy, an environmental group that often contested the agency’s plans, including a massive logging project on the King’s River that also raised the ire of California Attorney General Jerry Brown in 2007. But when Thomas sent a letter to the USFS disrupting another timber sale the following year, the agency responded by asking to get together to avoid another protracted battle. In 2009, Congress passed a public lands management act that included funding for collaborative efforts to steward the woods. Sierra National Forest silviculturist Ramiro Rojas applied for a grant through the new Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration Program, and in 2010 the Dinkey Landscape Restoration Project was officially funded, convening multiple environmental groups, local loggers, cabin owners, church camps, research scientists, and the forest service to restore and steward 154,000 acres of overgrown Sierra land. Progress was slow at first. The first several monthly meetings were full of people letting their grievances air, says Mount. “You'd sit and listen to someone that had zero interest in trees really, who was more concerned about their rights to drive through the forest,” he said. “Then a birdwatcher would come in and sidetrack conversation.” But things moved, aided by science. A few years earlier, North had authored an influential document for forest management in the Sierras for the USFS. He frequently dropped in on the project’s monthly meetings to explain why certain growth patterns were more ecologically sound than others: Trees ought to be thinned in a way that matched the forest’s natural, heterogeneous state, according to topography, hydrology and how fire might behave. Later on, he showed the group how trees should be planted farther apart than the uniform stands that the timber industry had long favored. North’s handbook “was our bible,” said Thomas. “It helped us figure out what trees stay and what trees could leave”— a big step for someone who’d cut his teeth fighting off sawmills. The group would walk out into the woods and look at how trees were currently standing, while North and a professional mediator helped them weigh a wide range of interests, attachments, and economic realities. Throughout this laborious process, North emphasized the importance of reintroducing fire, a natural part of the forests’ ecology. Together, the group learned how to see the forest in a different way: not just as something to save or harvest, but as a vast, dynamic stage for growth, death and rebirth. “It was kind of painful, because we needed to do treatments on tens of thousands of acres at a time,” North said. “But the only way to do it was slowly, with the same group looking at the same trees, over and over again.” Not everything resulted in action, said Duysen. And the collaborative couldn’t move enough earth to save the forest from a warming planet. From 2012 to 2016, a historic drought, which scientists have connected to climate change, dried out the trees throughout the lower elevations of the southern Sierra Nevada, leaving trees vulnerable to bark beetle infestation. In most of the Dinkey footprint, 80% of medium-sized trees died as a result, estimates Kim Sorini, the Dinkey program manager at the Sierra National Forest, leaving behind a vast red-bark graveyard that fueled the Creek fire’s unprecedented destruction. “It made your stomach sick,” she said. “I cried.” “It was a double whammy with drought and the beetles, then the fire on top of it,” said Duysen. “That land has been hit pretty dang hard.” But the group’s labors did lead to a number of gains, most importantly on the scale of forest interventions. Thanks to the relationships forged in the collaborative, litigation in the entire forest ground to a halt, Sorini said. And by 2018, the Dinkey had treated about 23,000 acres of land with replanting and thinning; nearly 10,000 acres had been treated with prescribed burning, according to a 2018 Forest Service report. That’s not much, but previously tree thinning and burning projects were limited to about 1,000 acres at a time — anything bigger than that would cause controversy. “That’s been one of the fundamental failures to date — what has been done is just at a minuscule scale,” said North. “The collaborative managed to change that. They were able to work on 3,000 to 5,000 acres at a time.” “If we can’t expand the pace and scale of fire restoration, nobody is going to like the outcome.” The Dinkey group was also instrumental in pushing the national forest to start writing a plan that would allow prescribed fire to be used without as many environmental reviews for each individual treatment. That could further increase the pace and scale. Some conservationists aren’t as comfortable with hastening that process, Sorini said, but she’s confident that they’ll work through it. “I get it,” she said. “You can’t just tell people anymore, ‘Just trust us: We’re the government.’” For Mark Smith, a retired 25-year U.S. Forest Service silviculturist who serves on the Dinkey project, the group has been a powerful demonstration of how partnerships can overcome those kinds of obstacles. “I’ve been convinced for most of my career that the collaboration is the only way to manage the forest,” he said. A number of collaborators have even ended up as friends, including Thomas and Duysen, once on opposite sides of the timber wars. “I drink beer with those guys now,” said Thomas. Early on, the two even traveled to Washington, D.C. together to ask Congress for more funding. In 2018, to push policymakers to understand the need for prescribed fire, Thomas started the Fire Restoration Group upon his retirement from Sierra Forest Legacy. “I truly am afraid if we fail to adopt a strong ‘Living with Fire’ culture in California that we will lose the resilience, ecological benefits and beauty that makes California so unique,” he said. “If we can’t expand the pace and scale of fire restoration, nobody is going to like the outcome.”  To that end, Thomas also helped create and continues to co-chair a statewide fire management partnership. Many experts cite Dinkey as among the more successful of the 23 collaborative forest landscape restoration projects funded by Congress over the years. But it is not the only one. Projects span fought-over landscapes in 14 states throughout the West, Southeast, Southwestern and Midwestern parts of the U.S. In a survey of 106 participants involved in these projects conducted by the National Forest Foundation, roughly 85% said that they “agreed” or “strongly agreed” that their work was contributing to more “resilient ecosystems.” Nearly as many said they felt that more restoration was happening as a result of their collective efforts. “Compared to business-as-usual, our research found these projects are reducing conflicts, allowing project planning at larger scales, reducing fire hazard, finding innovations when it comes to public outreach, and forest monitoring,” says Courtney Schultz, a forest policy expert at Colorado State University who has studied the projects. The collaborative campaign “has been an incubator of innovation and has demonstrated positive steps forward.” Not all end in success. Schultz pointed to one project in Northern Arizona where a collaborative group working with the Forest Service produced an environmental impact statement for a project covering close to a million acres — an unprecedented scale — and faced no legal challenges. But nearly a decade later, the project is still struggling to get the work done, due to a dearth of industry contractors and economic incentive to support forest thinning. That is a widespread challenge for all of these projects, Schultz said, in light of the low commercial value of most trees that need to be removed from the woods. Many projects have also struggled to accomplish prescribed fire treatments, which have yet to be meaningfully expanded in the West. A century-old culture of fire suppression, iconified by Smokey Bear, remains ingrained in many parts of U.S. forest management culture. And distrust still lingers in some parts of the environmental community. Some green groups eye collaborative projects with suspicion, believing that litigation and challenges through environmental law are a more effective route to their ecological priorities, according to a 2015 report from the University of Montana. This is true in some places more than others: The Northern Region of the Forest Service, which encompasses Montana, Idaho, North Dakota and parts of Washington and South Dakota, still sees the highest rate, by far, of lawsuits by environmental groups out of any region of the forest service. “We had ‘no’ down to a fine art. How do we define what ‘yes’ looks like?” Even in the Sierra National Forest, not all wounds are healed. Duysen still blames environmental laws for the damage inflicted on the timber industry. “No one has the confidence to go out and build another sawmill because we feel like we’ve been burned by the U.S. government,” he says. That’s a problem, since there’s so much biomass to deal with, especially now after the mass die-off and the fire. Duysen says that Thomas once expressed regret to him about all those lawsuits, though Thomas remembers that differently. “The regret I feel is that we didn’t gather the social wherewithal to do the conversations we've been having in the Dinkey collaborative about ten years earlier,” Thomas says. “We chose a very oppositional framework: We’re good and they’re bad.” Now he sees value in unity, and says that all parties have to be part of the solution — after all, California will need more sawmills to process all the small-diameter trees it needs to thin. “We had ‘no’ down to a fine art,” he says. “How do we define what ‘yes’ looks like?” Duysen agrees. “We might not agree on 10% of things. But the worst thing you can do is just let the forest sit there.” If the fire-prone forests of the American West — and the communities that live among them — are going to survive in a world that stands to only get hotter and more unstable, the Dinkey project collaborators agreed on several other key takeaways. They insist that the USFS will need more trained staff to approach the rate and scale of restoration work that is needed. Beyond that, as wildfires consume more of the West Coast every year and the costs of fire suppression reach new heights, Congress and federal agencies will have to evolve out of risk aversion and take bolder leadership, the members said, especially to expand the use of prescribed fire, which mimics the ancient, natural processes in the Sierra Nevada. “You can’t thin your way out of the problem,” North said. “You’ll never have these forests be resilient to what climate change throws at them until you put their natural systems back in.” Public opinion on that front may be shifting. Adjacent to the Sierra National Forest, the San Joaquin Valley,  one of the most air-polluted parts of the country, air quality regulators are starting to accept prescribed burns as a worthy tradeoff against the relentless pollution of recent wildfire seasons, Mount said. To that end, most also agreed that some regulatory reform could help to quicken the pace of projects that have to happen. The Trump administration’s multi-pronged rollbacks of environmental protections is not what most meant. “No one wants to eliminate NEPA —you need the public’s involvement,” North continued. “But if we can make it more efficient, and flexible, we might be able to work at larger scales.” Finally, if there’s any hope for California, the scale of forest restoration must increase by an order of magnitude, the group said. That may be a tall order in a year where the state’s wildfire prevention funds have been depleted on suppression, and as the society deals with the economic fallout of Covid-19. But every dollar will be essential if those 14 million acres of sick forest are to survive, they said. And if the Dinkey collaborative is any sign, it might not be impossible. Is there a deeper lesson here for other issues on which Americans seem unable to find common ground? Not everyone was sure. But Thomas is certain of one thing. “The whole trajectory of disunity we’re on does not bode well for society,” he says. “We have a treasure of public land, and it all matters. We need to find the places where we can step in and make change happen.”