China’s maritime Silk Road of the 21st century will soon have an unexpected new mission: shipping camels from Africa. When Haidob port on Sudan’s Red Sea coast is finished at the end of next month, it will be the impoverished country’s hub for exporting sheep, goats — and yes, the iconic humped mammals of the desert — to markets eastward. Sudan’s port operator says it’s the latest section of the Belt and Road Initiative, China’s thrust to revive and extend ancient routes to Europe and Africa using cutting-edge infrastructure. Built by China Harbour Engineering, the 120 million-euro ($141 million) project is another instance of Beijing forging links with some of the world’s more obscure but potentially lucrative locations. Further down Africa’s eastern seaboard in tiny Djibouti, China has financed two ports in a location that’s a chokepoint for global shipping, as well as a railway to help landlocked Ethiopia transport its goods to the wider world. In total, 157 nations and international organizations have signed up, with Morgan Stanley estimating spending will total $1.3 trillion by 2027. Opportunities may exist for the U.S., too. Earlier this month a Sudanese trade ministry official met American embassy representatives in Khartoum, the first such official meeting in years. Among the topics discussed: Sudan’s potential accession to World Trade Organization and developing its exports to U.S., including gum Arabic, gold and livestock. In Sudan, the livestock potential lies in satisfying export markets for alternative meat and milk. The World Bank among others has identified it as a growth industry for a country still reeling from the loss of much of its oil reserves with South Sudan’s 2011 secession and decades of economic sanctions. The timing may be fortuitous. After almost three decades as a pariah to the western world, Sudan is coming in from the cold following last year’s toppling of Islamist dictator Omar al-Bashir. The transitional government is working on settling Sudan’s debts and financial aid may be on the way. It could lead to a boost for agriculture, already the country’s largest economic sector. In that case, China’s infrastructure planners may have chosen just the right spot. —Mohammed Alamin in Khartoum The former Cold War frontier of eastern Europe is becoming a battleground in the $500 billion business of building nuclear power plants. Four months after lifting a prohibition on financing nuclear-energy deals overseas, the U.S. is finding openings for companies such as General Electric, Westinghouse Electric and Bechtel. In the span of a few weeks, the U.S. signed a memorandum with Romania for the financing of a new reactor and other accords with Poland as well as Bulgaria, which plans to revive an older reactor project. Don’t keep it to yourself. Colleagues and friends can sign up here. We also publish Balance of Power, a daily briefing on the latest in global politics. For even more: Follow @economics on Twitter and subscribe to Bloomberg.com for unlimited access to trusted, data-driven journalism and gain expert analysis from exclusive subscriber-only newsletters. How are we doing? We want to hear what you think about this newsletter. Let our trade tsar know. — With assistance by Brendan Murray, Slav Okov, and Zoe Schneeweiss