Photographer: Cengiz Yar/Getty Images Photographer: Cengiz Yar/Getty Images The U.S. had a record 126,714 new cases on Friday, the second day in a row the country has had more than 120,000 new infections, with several states reporting record new case numbers. Hospitalizations may be headed for all-time highs, while President Donald Trump’s chief of staff has been infected, people familiar said. The World Health Organization said six countries, including the U.S., have found the virus in farmed minks and called for enhanced surveillance of animal-human interface whereever susceptible animal reservoirs are found. England, which began a lockdown this week, said the virus’s spread is slowing. France reported a record for the third time in a week. Italy’s infections spiked as new lockdowns began, and the government approved a new pandemic relief package. Global infections neared 50 million. Australia’s Victoria state had zero new cases for the eighth day in a row. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The U.S. becomes the first country to top 100,000 coronavirus cases in one day Source: Johns Hopkins University  Italy’s government approved an extra pandemic relief package for businesses hit by the country’s second lockdown. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte held a cabinet meeting on Friday evening to back the measures, which come on top of earlier aid of 5 billion euros ($5.9 billion). Italy is expected to spend 2.5 billion euros in its additional spending program, which aims to shield companies and families in the highest-risk areas, according to officials familiar with the discussions. With the Covid-19 virus surging in Europe, Italians are prohibited from leaving or entering cities in high-risk areas, including Milan, Italy’s financial hub, and key northern industrial cities. The U.S. had a record 126,714 new cases on Friday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News from sources including Johns Hopkins University and the World Health Organization. The tally was up from 126,403 a day earlier, and underscores the growing challenge American authorities face in containing outbreaks. The tally may be adjusted as more data are incorporated. Nationwide, 58,678 beds were occupied by Covid-19 patients, according to Department of Health and Human Services data analyzed by Bloomberg News. Almost 11,000 patients are being treated in intensive care units, according to the Covid Tracking Project. Hospitalizations have soared. President Donald Trump’s chief of staff, Mark Meadows, has told associates he has coronavirus, according to people familiar with the matter, adding to the outbreaks connected to the White House. It wasn’t immediately clear when Meadows learned that he was infected or whether he had developed symptoms of Covid-19. He informed a close circle of advisers after Tuesday’s election, one person said. Meadows didn’t respond to multiple requests for comment. More than three dozen people associated with the president or the White House have been infected by the virus, including the president, his wife, Melania, and his youngest son, Barron. Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, and other aides tested positive for the virus late last month, shortly before the election. Exports rose 11.4% in dollar terms in October from a year earlier, while imports gained 4.7%, the customs administration said Saturday. That left a trade surplus of $58.4 billion for the month. Economists had forecast that exports would increase by 9.2% while imports would grow by 8.6%. The data underscore the Chinese economy’s continued recovery after the country was the epicenter of infections in the early stages of the pandemic. Colorado reported a record 3,102 new cases Friday, with Denver imposing a 30-day overnight “Home By 10” public health order to curb the outbreak effective Sunday. Restaurants and most other businesses will be required to close by 10 p.m. Neighboring Adams County went a step further, imposing a full nighttime curfew for 30 days. Australia’s Victoria state, which ended a three-month lockdown in its capital Melbourne last week, recorded an eighth straight day with no new coronavirus cases. The stringent restrictions, which shuttered hospitality and retail and included a nighttime curfew, have seen new Covid-19 infections drop from a daily peak of around 700 in early August. The economic and social impact of the lockdown has been enormous, with the government estimating 1,200 jobs have been lost on average a day across Victoria state, and demand for mental health services has surged. China said it found 33 new cases for Nov. 6, with all of them being imported. South Korea confirmed a further 89 cases, bringing its total to 27,284. Mexico reported 5,931 more cases, bringing the total to 955,128. Deaths rose 551 to 94,323. Argentina reported 11,786 more cases, bringing its total to 1,228,814. There were 371 additional deaths. The WHO weighed in on the outbreak of Covid-19 in minks, which has prompted Denmark to announce a cull of its farmed population of the animals. The Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Italy and the U.S. have all reported finding the virus in farmed minks, the WHO said. The WHO said more study is needed of the “cluster 5” variant found in the Danish outbreak, but that preliminary findings indicate it “has moderately decreased sensitivity to neutralizing antibodies.” It called for all countries to enhance surveillance for Covid-19 at the “animal-human interface” where susceptible animal reservoirs are identified. Oregon tightened health restrictions on five counties, limiting the capacity of restaurants, gyms and other recreational facilities, and banning visits at long-term care homes. Cases reached a daily record of 805 on Thursday. “It’s extremely concerning,” Governor Kate Brown said. “We have to go on the offense to stop the spread.” Illinois on Friday reported a record 10,376 cases, up from 9,935 a day earlier, and its seven-day rolling positivity rate jumped to 9.6% from 9.1%, according to state department of health data. Given the resurgence, all of the state’s regions are already operating under some mitigation measures such as bans on indoor dining and Governor J.B. Pritzker is considering more limits to bend the curve again. “It’s the last thing I want to do but I am ready to do it,” Pritzker said Friday during his daily press conference. Pritzker’s office subsequently said the governor is isolating and awaiting test results after being notified he may have been exposed to the virus at a meeting with an external party on Monday. The office is conducting contact-tracing and following public health guidance. Ohio set a record again Friday, passing 5,000 daily infections for the first time. The state hit a record three times this week. Gov. Mike DeWine, one of President Donald Trump’s Ohio re-election co-chairs, has acted aggressively against the virus, though he has faced boos for mandating masks and other measures. Hospitalizations were also at a record high, he said. “It’s up to us all to help push this virus down,” he said Friday on Twitter. Another record-setting day of new #COVID19 cases and hospitalizations in Ohio. The increase we're seeing is not because we're testing more - it's because this virus is spreading more. It's up to all of us to help push this virus down. https://t.co/3lWx4IRScb pic.twitter.com/gsVAKlYwsg France reported a record number of new virus cases for the third time in a week. Confirmed infections increased by 60,486 on Friday to 1.66 million, French health authorities reported. Deaths increased by 828 to 39,865, boosted in part by the inclusion of several days of data from nursing homes. France started a second lockdown a week ago in an effort to slow the spread of the virus, with limits on movement and closures of some stores. Even though it’s less strict than the prior one, the new lockdown is already hurting the economy. The French car lobby PFA said on Friday that orders were down about 70% over the week compared to a year earlier. Health officials are increasingly worried by New York City’s continuing increase in infections, and may require stricter enforcement of testing travelers entering or returning to the city, Mayor Bill de Blasio said. The seven-day average of positive test results reached 1.96%, an increase from 1.81% a day earlier, de Blasio said in a WNYC radio interview. New cases on a seven-day average rose to 702, well above the 550 public-health warning threshold established several months ago. “That says we are now really threatened with a second wave here in New York City if we don’t quickly get a handle on this,” he said. Russia’s Federal Statistics Service said Friday 55,671 people died with Covid-19 from April through September, more than double the direct toll reported earlier. September’s total was 9,798, up 25% from August. The data from Rosstat, as the agency is known, include lethal cases directly attributed to Covid-19 and those where the coronavirus was reported as an “important condition.” Both cases and deaths in the U.K. were above the seven-day average on Friday. Another 23,287 cases were reported, about 700 more than the weekly average, with 355 deaths, compared to 309 over the past week. The rate of increase of infections in England is slowing, according to new figures published Friday by the U.K.’s Office for National Statistics. The total rate of infections rose to one in 90 in the week through Oct. 31 in England. While this is up from the previous published rate of 1 in 100, the increase is less steep compared with previous weeks, it said. Italy’s new cases jumped 10% Friday to a record 37,809 as daily testing also hit a record 234,245. Daily fatalities were 446, in line with the previous day. Patients in intensive care units rose by 124 to 2,515, compared with an early April peak of more than 4,000. Tougher restrictions kicked in around the Milan region and key industrial hubs in the north as of Friday. All shops were shut excluding pharmacies, supermarkets and essentials, while no movement is allowed except for work, health or justified reasons. Portugal on Friday reported the biggest daily rise in confirmed cases since the start of the outbreak. There were 5,550 new cases in a day, more than the previous record of 4,656 reported on Oct. 30, taking the total to 166,900. The number of patients in intensive-care units rose 20 to 340. The government this week extended curbs to more regions and will hold a cabinet meeting on Saturday to discuss other possible measures. Newly diagnosed cases of Covid-19 in Switzerland hit a record this week, though data suggest the outbreak might be slowing. While the absolute numbers are still concerning, “one does get the sense that this rise is tending to flatten or stabilize,” said Stefan Kuster, who heads the infectious disease department at the Federal Office for Public Health. The surge in new Covid-19 cases in Switzerland may be tapering off Source: Swiss Federal Office of Public Health Note: Daily newly reported cases Norway’s capital ordered that cinemas, training centers and swimming halls be closed and banned the serving of alcohol to slow a rise in infections. The curbs come after Prime Minister Erna Solberg on Thursday introduced tighter rules nationwide and implored people to stay home. WATCH: Johns Hopkins Virologist Andrew Pekosz discusses the surge in U.S. coronavirus cases. Source: Bloomberg — With assistance by Adrian Kennedy, Shruti Singh, Vincent Del Giudice, Elise Young, Keshia Clukey, Henry Goldman, Marco Bertacche, Sara Marley, Joao Lima, Charles Capel, Joe Carroll, Alan Katz, Jacklyn Wille, Linly Lin, Jason Gale, Ian Fisher, and Natalie Lung