Hospitalizations have been soaring in key battleground states that could decide the outcome of the U.S. presidential race, led by increased admissions in Florida, Michigan and Ohio. With vote counting well underway, investors are looking for a clear outcome that could signal another virus-related spending bill. The rate of growth in U.S. infections has surpassed Morgan Stanley’s bear-case scenario. The resurgent coronavirus also continues to batter Europe. Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary suffered their deadliest days of the pandemic. Italy, Sweden and the Netherlands are laying out new curbs, while French fatalities rose by the most since April. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. joined banking rivals in asking most employees in England to work from home until further notice as the number of Covid deaths there and in Wales climbed 46% in a week. Total cases in India, second to the U.S. in the number of infections, rose to 8.31 million. In Australia, the state border between its two biggest cities will reopen on Nov. 23 after the city of Melbourne ended a lockdown last week. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. 10 U.S. states where Covid-19 inpatient numbers surged since Oct. 30 Source: HHS Protect Public Data Hub  India reported 46,253 new cases, in line with a slowdown in daily infections over the past three weeks. The country reached a peak of more than 97,000 daily cases in mid-September, putting it on track to overtake the U.S., but with the slower rate of new Indian cases and resurgent numbers in America, that now looks unlikely for some time. Still, India has just kicked off its festival season -- culminating in Diwali on Nov. 14 -- and large-scale celebratory events planned across the country could re-ignite the spread of infection. Australia showed more signs of recovery, with household spending surging by a record 6.5% last quarter, led by cafes and clothing and footwear stores as Covid-19 restrictions in much of the country were unwound. The growth was partly restrained by a 4.2% decline in Victoria state, which only released its capital Melbourne from lockdown last week. The border between New South Wales and Victoria, Australia’s two biggest state economies, will reopen on Nov. 23 as community transmission declines. “We need to keep moving forward as we live with Covid-19,” NSW state Premier Gladys Berejiklian said on Twitter. Her state reported three new local cases of the virus on Wednesday, while Victoria reported zero new cases. Boris Johnson is set to push fresh coronavirus lockdown rules through the U.K. Parliament on Wednesday, facing down rebels in his own Conservative Party who fear an erosion of civil liberties. The regulations will take effect from midnight, enforcing the closing of pubs, gyms and non-essential shops in England, and restricting social contact between households. The prime minister announced the monthlong lockdown on Saturday after data showed the pandemic exceeding even the worst-case projections of his scientific advisers. Governor Andrew Cuomo on Tuesday warned New Yorkers to be vigilant as the state’s coronavirus positivity rate nears 2% and hospitalizations are on the rise. Approximately 1.81% of the more than 127,800 tests conducted on Monday were positive. and the testing rate in the state’s hot-spot areas was 2.63%, including Brooklyn, Queens, and Orange and Rockland Counties, as well as several counties that border Pennsylvania. “New York state is not immune from the wave of Covid outbreaks currently sweeping across the nation,” Cuomo said in a release. “Unless we are vigilant and continue wearing masks, washing our hands and remaining socially distant, the viral spread will increase.” New York City’s seven-day average of newly diagnosed daily Covid-19 cases rose to 605 as of Nov. 1, Mayor Bill de Blasio said earlier. It was the fifth time since Oct. 15 that the city’s weekly average of new cases exceeded 550, a public health safety threshold established months ago as a warning that infection rates were reaching levels that could strain the city’s hospital system. While case numbers have climbed, daily hospitalizations have remained more stable, with 83 reported as of Nov. 1, well below the city’s hospital capacity warning threshold of 200. Texas’s top law-enforcement official asked a judge to end the lockdown in El Paso, where a surging caseload has pushed hospitals to capacity. A coronavirus testing site in El Paso. The region is Texas’s worst hot spot, with almost 20,000 active cases - second only to the Houston area. Photographer: Cengiz Yar/Getty Images Attorney General Ken Paxton requested an injunction to stop an El Paso County stay-home order and nighttime curfew, arguing that County Judge Ricardo Samaniego usurped authority that rests solely with the governor. A hearing is scheduled for Wednesday. With almost 20,000 active cases, the El Paso region is second only to the Houston area in the state. Virus hospitalizations have more than doubled in the past two weeks. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte announced plans to extend the country’s partial lockdown until mid-December and impose additional restrictions as the number of Covid-19 cases in hospitals continues to rise. Cinemas, theaters, museums, libraries and zoos will close for two weeks, joining bars and restaurants, which have been shut since mid-October. Fitness clubs are allowed to remain open, but group exercises are prohibited. The move comes as cases slow, but not fast enough, Rutte said. Mark Rutte Photographer:Bart Maat/ANP/AFP via Getty Images Health agency RIVM said 64,087 infections were confirmed in the country in the week ending Nov. 3, down slightly from the 67,542 patients in the prior seven-day period. New Jersey hospitalizations for Covid continue to climb, with 1,133 as of Nov. 2, the most since the end of June. The number has more than doubled in a month. Daily cases reported also doubled, to 1,832 from 957 on Oct. 2. Intensive-care units had 216 patients, compared with 88 on Oct. 2, for a sixth straight day of a 200-plus count. Though hospitals reported a drop in ventilator patients over 24 hours -- 78 users, compared with 100 on Nov. 1 -- the state also logged 18 virus-related deaths. Hospitals also reported 23 additional fatalities that may have a virus link. Hungary’s government set out new measures to fight the spiraling coronavirus pandemic, reinstating a state of emergency as of Wednesday and imposing a midnight curfew, but falling short of some of the tighter restrictions announced elsewhere in Europe. The government will allow sporting and cultural events to continue, albeit at a third of maximum capacity, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said in a video on Facebook. Nightclubs will be shut and a daily curfew imposed between midnight and 5 a.m. Hungary announced record new cases and daily deaths Tuesday, but unlike peers in eastern Europe, will keep restaurants and schools open, and hasn’t formally requested people to work remotely, where possible. The Italian government, which has fought to avoid a new national lockdown in a bid to spare the country’s fragile economy, is drawing up new restrictions as the country registered 28,244 new virus cases Tuesday. Italy reported 353 virus deaths, the most since early May, and patients in intensive care units surged by 203 to 2,225, the biggest jump since March. Tourists visit Fontana di Trevi in Rome before curfew on Nov. 2. Photographer: Lorenzo Di Cola/NurPhoto/Getty Images The government is set to ban people from leaving or entering cities and towns in designated high-risk areas, according to the draft of a new decree on coronavirus restrictions. Greece recorded 2,166 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, a record high. The government has placed Thessaloniki, the country’s second-largest city, into a general lockdown as of Tuesday morning and it has tightened measures to contain the spread of the virus in the rest of the country. Greece also reported 13 more deaths, while the occupancy rate of intensive-care units stands at 63.1%. People line up to get tested for Covid-19 in Thessaloniki last week. Photographer: Sakis Mitrolidis/AFP via Getty Images Swedes face a new wave of restrictions, with the government warning of a grim winter ahead. Prime Minister Stefan Lofven, speaking to reporters on Tuesday, said his country is facing a “very serious situation.” Sweden’s new cases hit a record of 4,062 on Friday. As of Tuesday, a total of 134,532 Swedes had been infected, with 5,969 deaths. A gauge of the rate of increase in coronavirus infections in Germany has fallen in recent days, though it’s too early to conclude that there has been a turning point, according to the RKI public health institute. “The curve looks to be flattening somewhat at the moment, but this has to be treated with a great deal of caution as a few days cannot provide concrete evidence of a change in the trend,” RKI Vice President Lars Schaade said at a news conference in Berlin. The institute’s virus reproduction factor, which last week climbed to as high as 1.45, was at 1.07 on Monday. A reading above 1 represents exponential growth. JPMorgan Chase & Co joined rivals in asking the majority of its employees in England to work from home following government rules to stop a surge in coronavirus infections. The Wall Street bank told staff in a memo Tuesday that most workers will be required to work from home from Thursday until further notice. The new measures mean that about 5% of workers will be in the office. — With assistance by Kara Wetzel, and Adam Majendie