The best-known story about Aby Warburg (1866-1929) dates to when, at the age of 13, he made a deal with his younger brother Max. Aby, the (apparently factual) tale goes, agreed to renounce his rights as the eldest son of a vast German-Jewish banking dynasty in return for Max’s agreement to buy Aby any book he wished, for the rest of his life. In doing so, Aby became an art historian who built up a 60,000-volume library for cultural studies. Max, keeping his end of the bargain, became the (unintentional) underwriter of one of Europe’s great research institutions, which eventually became known as the Warburg Institute. A slightly more obscure anecdote about Aby has to do with a project he embarked on in the last four years of his life. Known as the Bilderatlas Mnemosyne, the project was an attempt by Warburg to trace the impact of the ancient world on modernity, along with an effort to use art history to capture mankind’s relationship with the cosmos. (Bilderatlas translates to “atlas of images”; Mnemosyne is the Greek goddess of remembrance.) It was a “mapping of cultural memory in visual form,” says Bill Sherman, director of the Warburg Institute. “It’s a very weird idea. No one had done it—that you could map our cultural inheritance only using images.” Take Leonardo’s Vitruvian Man, which is often interpreted as an attempt to rationalize human proportions within a mathematical framework. Warburg paired that drawing with other images—some medieval, others 15th and 16th century—that made similar connections between cosmology and the human anatomy. “It’s about the ways in which humans and their bodies are related to larger frames,” Sherman says. The project, which Warburg intended to turn into a three-volume book, was never completed. Warburg died of a heart attack at the age of 63. Soon afterward, his library’s executors made the decision to move its contents to England in response to the rise of Nazism. Warburg had shown the panels of his atlas to dozens of people and used them for lectures and presentations. But the only concrete documentation of the atlas was a set of negatives that documented 63 black-and-white panels. “An article in Der Spiegel described the Bilderatlas as the holy grail of the humanities,” Sherman says. “By that, they meant two things: It was a foundational project of almost biblical status, but it was also missing.” After two curators began to dig into the Warburg archives, though, they discovered that the institute had been in possession of Warburg’s atlas all along. “The [original] images he’d put on panels had been absorbed into this massive archive” of 450,000 images, Sherman says. After years of work, the images were reassembled in accordance with the black-and-white negatives, and then exhibited this fall in Berlin. The Warburg institute has now put the panels online. The exhibition will be formally launched on Nov. 26 via an online program hosted by the Serpentine Galleries in London. In advance, you can take in some highlights below. Warburg was born in Hamburg with a dual lineage of German-Jewish bankers. His father was the director of M. M. Warburg, and his mother was a member of the prominent Oppenheim family. Warburg bucked family expectations and became one of the most influential, if enigmatic, intellectuals of the early 20th century. Courtesy The Warburg Institute With only the archival negatives to work from, curators painstakingly recreated the panels from images in the Warburg archive. Making this doubly hard was the fact that “we have black and white images of three different versions of the atlas,” says Sherman. “What they look like is quite mind-blowing. It’s not a form that was used before or since.” Photographer: Silke Briel “This panel shows, in its most concise form, what the Bilderatlas is mapping,” says Sherman. “It shows how the Renaissance’s visual imagination—and even renaissance culture—depends fundamentally on ancient sources.” Courtesy The Warburg Institute “He never left behind the blueprint [for the panels] or commentary, so it’s up to us as an art project to figure out what’s happening,” Sherman says. Academics have flocked to the reconstructed images in an attempt to decipher Warburg’s logic. “We know he’s very interested in the past animating the present,” Sherman says. Photographer: Silke Briel “There are two or three really important things that he would want us to take from the atlas,” says Sherman. “There’s the need to learn about where images come from; they shouldn’t just be taken at surface, or face value. And we need to educate ourselves in order to understand the influences of the past on the present. That’s what his entire enterprise was geared towards.” Courtesy The Warburg Institute “One of the puzzles about it—and one of the reasons we think it’s radically unfinished—is that Aby was influential in [academic studies of] the work of non-European cultures,” Sherman says. Of particular note was Warburg’s in-depth research of Arizona and New Mexico’s Hopi tribe, whose snake rituals Warburg connected to the Ancient Greeks. “But there’s nothing from the Hopi culture in these panels,” Sherman continues. "They’re almost entirely European.” Courtesy The Warburg Institute “In the age of Instagram, we do tend to look in a superficial way at clusters of images, rather than go deep,” Sherman says. “These mysteries of how and why Warburg was associating one thing with another has really grabbed people.” Photographer: Silke Briel