The U.S. became the first country to top 100,000 cases in one day, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Illinois, Ohio, Michigan and Indiana were among states reporting record Covid-19 infections on Thursday. A Height Capital Markets analyst estimated that U.S. hospitals could reach capacity and trigger lockdowns before the Thanksgiving holiday if infections continue at the current pace. In Europe, France warned of a “violent” second wave and Greece imposed a three-week lockdown. In Asia, Japan recorded over 1,000 coronavirus infections on Thursday, the highest level the country has seen since August. South Korea reported 145 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, the biggest gain in two weeks. China will temporarily halt entry by non-Chinese nationals who are in Russia and India, after doing so for those in the U.K. and Belgium. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The U.S. becomes the first country to top 100,000 coronavirus cases in one day Source: Johns Hopkins University  Japan Airlines Co. will raise up to 168 billion yen ($1.6 billion) in an overseas and domestic share sale, using the proceeds to reduce debt and bolster its financial base. The carrier last month forecast what would be its first fiscal-year net loss since emerging from bankruptcy in 2012, with most travel still suspended due to the coronavirus outbreak. Germany recorded 22,561 new coronavirus cases in the 24 hours through Friday morning, down from the previous day’s record of 31,480, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The figures have fluctuated significantly in recent weeks, with daily infections falling to the lowest in almost two weeks on Wednesday. The average over the past seven days has risen to 17,827 from 14,644 over the previous period. A partial lockdown took effect Monday designed to reduce social contact while keeping Europe’s biggest economy running. The restrictions include closing bars and restaurants while keeping schools and daycare centers open. A small study found that a nasal spray protected ferrets from absorbing the coronavirus, the New York Times reported. The study was released Thursday by an international team of scientists and hasn’t been peer-reviewed. The spray, which has only been tested on animals, contains a lipopeptide that attacks the virus directly, preventing it from attaching to lung cells. The work has been under way by scientists from Columbia University Medical Center in New York, Erasmus Medical Center in the Netherlands, Cornell University and the University of Campania in Italy, the Times reported. The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health and the Columbia University Medical Center, it said. India added 47,638 cases on Friday, easing slightly after infections a day earlier topped 50,000 for the first time since Oct. 24. The country has seen daily infections drop from a peak of more than 97,000 in mid-September. But concerns have increased over a possible jump in cases as India kicks off its festival season -- culminating in Diwali on Nov. 14. Total cases in India are at 8.41 million, the second-highest globally behind the U.S., while the country’s death toll rose to 124,985. Malaysia’s new cases have topped 1,000 for three straight days this week. The country has been struggling to contain a resurgence of coronavirus infections that emerged in late September after local elections in the eastern state of Sabah. The government has tightened curbs on movement across several states including in the capital city of Kuala Lumpur, ordered about 1 million people to work from home, and banned all social and cultural activities to control the spread. Japan’s Hokkaido prefecture plans to raise its coronavirus alert as soon as Saturday after cases surged to record and will ask restaurants in the nightlife district of Susukino in Sapporo to close at 10 p.m., broadcaster NTV reports, without attribution. The U.K. has removed Denmark from its travel corridor list, Secretary of State for Transport Grant Shapps said in a tweet. Health authorities have reported widespread outbreaks of Covid-19 in mink farms with variant strain spreading to some local communities. Australia’s Victoria state, which ended a three-month lockdown in its capital Melbourne last week, has recorded a seventh-straight day with no new coronavirus cases. The stringent restrictions, which shuttered hospitality and retail and included a nighttime curfew, have seen new Covid-19 infections drop from a daily peak of around 700 in early August. Japan recorded over 1,000 coronavirus infections on Thursday, the highest level the country has seen since August. While the numbers pale in comparison to those seen in Europe and the U.S., they’re worrying authorities in a country that has so far weathered the pandemic. Hokkaido, the northernmost region, has been at the center of the increase, with a record 119 cases on Thursday. The prefecture is reported to be considering lifting its alert level and asking people to avoid unnecessary trips outdoors. After battling with the virus in spring, Japan already faced another surge in the summer, peaking in August with nearly 1,600 infections a day. The country managed to cut that level to around a third via limited, regional measures that included shutting bars early. A screen features Hokkaido Governor Naomichi Suzuki delivering a message in Sapporo on Nov. 5. Photographer: Kentaro Takahashi/Bloomberg South Korea reported 145 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours compared with 125 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. That was the biggest increase in newly confirmed cases in two weeks. China will temporarily suspend entry by non-Chinese nationals who are in Russia and India and hold valid visas or residence permits, two Chinese embassies said in statements dated Nov. 5. The halt is due to the coronavirus epidemic. China earlier adopted a temporary entry ban over U.K. and Belgium. U.S. coronavirus cases increased by more than 100,000 -- the highest daily number ever recorded by any nation -- as Americans await the outcome of a presidential election that has exposed strongly opposing views on how aggressively to manage the pandemic. Illinois, Ohio and Michigan were among states reporting record Covid-19 infections on Thursday, with Ohio’s governor calling the state’s numbers “shockingly high.” New York cases are running at the highest level in six months. A recent surge in the Midwest has spread more widely, with states from New York to Utah reporting increasing cases. The nation has the most cases, at 9,586,656, and fatalities, 234,777, in the world. Flags representing the number of Americans died of Covid-19 are placed at the D.C. Armory Parade Grounds. Photographer: Stefani Reynolds/Bloomberg Indiana reported 4,462 new cases, the second consecutive day the state has set a record for new infections. The 7-day average has roughly tripled in the last month to 3,236 on Wednesday. The state reported another 45 deaths, among the most in one day, for a total of 4,269. With Covid-19 surging around the nation, an Associated Press analysis concluded that 93% of the 376 U.S. counties with the biggest increases in per-capita cases voted for President Donald Trump. Most were in rural parts of the Midwest and Plains states, according to the analysis. Michigan reported 5,710 cases Thursday, breaking the record for the second day in a row. Governor Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, said on Thursday she had urged the Republican-controlled legislature to pass a law requiring masks indoors and crowded outdoor places, as is already required by health orders. “This is the law under epidemic orders,” she said in a news conference. “But we do think it would be helpful to our health, our safety and our economy if it was codified in a bipartisan way with the legislature.” New York reported the most new cases since early May as Governor Andrew Cuomo raised “caution flags” about new hot spots in the west of the state the Finger Lakes. Of more than 161,000 tests conducted statewide on Wednesday, 1.86%, or 2,997 were positive, including hot spots -- the highest positivity rate since June, according to state data. The rate was 1.70% without the hot spot areas, which include Brooklyn, Queens, Orange and Rockland counties, as well as counties that border Pennsylvania. There were 1,277 hospitalizations and 24 virus-related fatalities. A Covid-19 swab test in a roadside testing tent in Paris on Nov. 5. Photographer: Adrienne Surprenant/Bloomberg France posted a record number of new virus cases, 58,046, as the health minister warned of a “violent” second wave sweeping the country. France is also facing a surge in intensive care patients, Health Minister Olivier Veran said. Virus patients now account for more than 85% of French hospitals’ initial intensive-care capacity. Another 363 people died from the virus, bringing the total to 39,037. Surging U.S. Covid-19 cases have surpassed 100,000 per day and hospitalizations are also climbing. If the trend continues, hospitals could reach capacity and trigger lockdowns before Thanksgiving, according to a Height policy analyst. “At the current growth rate, we expect the total number of currently hospitalized patients to hit 60,000—a breaking point in past surges —by Nov. 15,” Hunter Hammond wrote in a client note. At that point, “restrictions will gradually intensify.” — With assistance by Ken McCallum, Takaaki Iwabu, Gearoid Reidy, Matt Turner, and Jeff Sutherland