Photographer: Kena Betancur/AFP/Getty Images Photographer: Kena Betancur/AFP/Getty Images We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Fresh Covid-19 vaccine reports are on the horizon, with drugmakers including Pfizer Inc. expected to obtain more trial data as early as this week. The updates are eagerly awaited as the pandemic accelerates, with the U.S. surpassing 11 million cases. Nations across the globe moved toward tougher measures, although two of U.S. President-elect Joe Biden’s advisers said they oppose a nationwide lockdown. Michigan’s governor announced a three-week partial lockdown, and urged residents to refrain from Thanksgiving gatherings. Hong Kong is tightening social-distancing rules after a rise in locally transmitted cases. Germany warned of “considerable restrictions” over the next four to five months, while Austria plans mass-testing of its entire population. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Outbreaks have shot up in major European economies and in the U.S. Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control * Figures based on rolling 14-day total Japan and the International Olympic Committee are looking to have spectators attend the Tokyo Olympics after putting in a raft of safety measures for the games, delayed by a year due to the coronavirus. IOC President Thomas Bach said after a meeting Monday with Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga that the two sides were putting together a toolbox to counter the pandemic and would look to have participants vaccinated if a vaccine was available. Masks must be worn on Auckland public transport and on all domestic flights throughout New Zealand, effective from midnight Nov. 18, Minister for Covid-19 Response Chris Hipkins said in an emailed statement. Germany is considering additional measures including limiting gatherings and completely halting private parties until Christmas to limit the spread of coronavirus, Reuters reported, citing a draft document it has seen. Under new measures, people from one household will be allowed to meet with two people from another household, down from a maximum of 10 people from two households now. Measures include mandatory mask wearing for school students. Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said over the weekend that Germany will have to live with “considerable restrictions” against the spread of the coronavirus for at least the next four to five months. A vaccine from a unit of Johnson & Johnson is set to move to the third phase of clinical trials in the U.K. on Monday that will test the safety and effectiveness of the shot. The testing round by Janssen Pharmaceutical will include 6,000 volunteers and take place across 17 sites, according to a statement. The vaccine is the third candidate to be tested in the U.K., alongside one from an AstraZeneca Plc in partnership with the University of Oxford and another from Novavax Inc., it said. South Korea reported 223 new cases in 24 hours, up from 208 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. The number is the biggest increase in 11 weeks. South Australia state is battling a growing number of Covid-19 infections, with 17 cases now linked to a family cluster in the capital, Adelaide. “It is a very, very dangerous situation we’re in,” state Premier Steven Marshall said Monday. He said his government would consider tougher social-distancing restrictions if necessary, adding “we will do whatever it takes to get on top of this cluster.” The state’s Chief Public Health Officer Nicola Spurrier said the cases were linked to a “medi-hotel” where one of the infected people worked, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported. Such facilities are used by incoming travelers and local residents who can’t safely quarantine at home. Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer imposed a three-week partial lockdown in the state starting Wednesday, closing in-person dining at restaurants, limiting bars and temporarily closing high schools. Retailers and gyms are among the services that can stay open with reduced capacity, said state health department head Robert Gordon, who’s a member of President-elect Joe Biden’s broader transition team. Whitmer urged residents to refrain from big family gatherings for the Thanksgiving holiday in late November. “As hard as it is not seeing them this Thanksgiving, imagine how much harder it would be if you couldn’t see them for a future holiday ever again,” she said. California reported 10,968 new cases Sunday, a three-month high. Along with Saturday’s 9,875 infections, this makes it the worst weekend in months after the state surpassed 1 million cases last week. Covid-19 testing site at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles. California reported more than 10,000 new cases. Photographer: Robert Gauthier/ Los Angeles Times/Getty Images The number of deaths, at 35, however, brings the 14-day average to the lowest level since April. U.S. cases surpassed 11 million on Sunday after increasing by more than 1 million in a week, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Covid-19 has claimed more than 246,000 lives in the U.S., which has the most deaths of any country. Cases in Florida rose the most since July, when the last virus surge peaked. Sunday’s 10,105 reported infections compare with a seven-day trailing average of 5,900. Hospitalizations have risen by a third, to more than 3,000, since the beginning of October but are nowhere near the summer peak of almost 10,000. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson will self-isolate after coming into contact with someone who tested positive for Covid-19, his spokesman said. Johnson, 56, is well, isn’t showing symptoms and “will carry on working from Downing Street,” the spokesman said in a statement Sunday. Johnson met with members of Parliament at 10 Downing Street on Thursday and one of them, Lee Anderson, later tested positive. The prime minister overcame a bout of Covid-19 in late March and April that had him in intensive care for three nights. Washington Governor Jay Inslee reinstated a series of restrictions on social gatherings on Sunday as the state enters what he called a “third wave” that’s more dangerous than ever before. Jay Inslee Photographer: Jacob Kepler/Bloomberg Indoor dining is banned and outdoor dining will be limited to no more than five people, under the new measures, effective from Monday through Dec. 14. Indoor gatherings with people outside of the same household are also prohibited, unless visitors follow quarantine rules. France reported 27,228 new coronavirus cases on Sunday. The seven-day average, which smooths out fluctuations in the data, shrank by 5.5% to 27,786, showing a continued decline over the past week. Deaths rose by 302 to 44,548 since the beginning of the pandemic. The pressure on France’s intensive-care wards has been stabilizing in the last days, as seriously ill patients now occupy 96.5% of the country’s initial I.C.U. capacity, French health authorities reported. That rate rose sharply in the last weeks to reach 96.6% on Thursday. A Covid-19 patient at Timone Hospital in Marseille. The pressure on France’s intensive-care wards has been stabilizing in the last days. Photographer: Theo Giacometti/Bloomberg New Jersey reported 4,540 new infections, breaking a record for the second consecutive day. “These numbers are ALARMING and continue to rise,” Governor Phil Murphy tweeted. “Take this seriously. Wear a mask. Social distance. Stay safe.” Hospitalizations rose to 2,004 and patients in intensive care rose to 392. NEW JERSEY #COVID19 UPDATE:4,540 new positive cases279,274 cumulative total cases18 new confirmed deaths 14,765 total deaths These numbers are ALARMING and continue to rise. Take this seriously. Wear a mask. Social distance. Stay safe. https://t.co/JW1q8awGh7 pic.twitter.com/gdjREnqJyn Elon Musk tweeted Sunday morning that he has “no symptoms right now,” after admitting on Saturday that he “most likely” has a moderate case of Covid-19 and has had symptoms of “a minor cold.” He didn’t mention any results from his PCR tests, which are typically performed in labs and are more accurate than rapid tests. He continued to cast doubt on the accuracy of Covid tests on Saturday, citing his “wildly different results from different labs.” The U.K. added 24,962 cases on Sunday, in line with the average of 24,702 in the previous seven days. The country’s tally has risen by more than 20,000 cases every day since Nov. 2. Deaths increased by 168, below the weekly average of 411. Figures have been lower on weekends, when some reporting is delayed. A Covid-19 testing centre in Liverpool. Photographer: Anthony Devlin/Bloomberg Italy reported 33,979 new coronavirus cases and 546 new deaths Sunday as regions including Florence and Naples adapted to new restrictions, including closed shops and restaurants. Cases remain close to recent highs but have declined from a record 40,902 cases Friday. Sporadic protests erupted in cities including Rome and Turin against the measures taken by the government. Two of President-elect Joe Biden’s coronavirus advisers said they favor targeted local measures to stem the pandemic and oppose a nationwide U.S. lockdown as too blunt. Vivek Murthy, a former U.S. surgeon general who’s one of Biden’s top three advisers on the virus, said that based on what the nation has learned about Covid-19 since the spring, the preferred approach to fighting it is “a dial that we turn up and down, depending on severity.” “If we just lock down the entire country without targeting our efforts, then we are going to exacerbate the ‘pandemic fatigue’ people are feeling, you’re going to hurt jobs and the economy, you’re going to shut down schools and hurt the education of our children,” Murthy, who was appointed by former President Barack Obama, said on “Fox News Sunday.” Mayor Bill de Blasio said Sunday that New York City’s schools will remain open on Monday because Covid-19 positive tests haven’t risen above the threshold for closing down. The mayor has set a threshold of 3% positivity for closing the city’s public schools. He tweeted Sunday that number was at 2.57%, with 937 new cases. — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland