The warm light glows through handmade washi paper, the ephemeral shapes held just so by bamboo. Almost 70 years after the Japanese-American artist Isamu Noguchi designed the first of his iconic Akari light sculptures, the lamps have become the unexpected savior of a small museum in Queens that bears his name. Like museums across New York and around the world, the Isamu Noguchi Foundation and Garden Museum has been hammered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Unlike all those other institutions, it’s making up for lost revenue by selling Akari lanterns, which have become a hot home decor item in this era of Zoom calls and Room Rater. “They are timeless. A classic,” said Olga Naiman, founder of Aparat, an interior design and styling firm. “And they look good in almost any interior.” Akari sales surged since the mandatory lockdowns began in March, according to Brett Littman, director of the Noguchi museum, which is the sole distributor of the product in North America. Littman expects the lamps to bring in $2.4 million by the end of the year, up 44% from 2019, with about 5,000 pieces sold. “We did shut down, but based on the strength of Akari we were able to take care of our people,” said Littman, who initially projected a 35% decline in the organization’s $7.1 million budget for the year. Noguchi stands out among New York museums. Many had to make painful choices, cutting hundreds of jobs and, in some cases,  selling art. The museum, which also received $450,000 as part of the federal Paycheck Protection Program, was able to keep all its staff, including art installers, and avoid pay cuts. “Noguchi was incredibly entrepreneurial to establish this income source for the museum,” Littman said. “There isn’t another museum in the world that has this kind of income potential.” Born in Los Angeles in 1904, Noguchi became known for his public sculptures, gardens and collaboration with design firm Herman Miller. In 1961, the sculptor moved from Manhattan to Long Island City, Queens, buying a one-story commercial building where he lived and worked. Years later, he bought a lot across the street from the studio to establish the museum to preserve his legacy. To ensure its survival, Noguchi set up a residual collection of about 2,500 artworks, many of which can be sold to support the museum’s activities and operations. The museum has an additional 500 works in its permanent collection, which can never be sold. It’s not the first time Noguchi lamps have saved jobs. In 1951, in the aftermath of World War II, the mayor of Gifu, a city in Japan that’s a center of lantern and umbrella manufacturing, invited Noguchi to help modernize its traditional methods and revitalize the industry. For centuries, the lanterns were made with mulberry bark paper and bamboo and lit with candles. Noguchi retained the traditional approach, substituting candles with electric bulbs and teaming with a local company to fabricate them. During the next three decades, he created 183 models, turning Akari — which is Japanese for light — into an enduring symbol of 20th century design. The lanterns can be collapsed like an accordion into flat packages that are easy to ship. Prices range from $175 for a small egg-shaped lamp to $4,000 for an 8-foot-tall hanging piece. Last year, the lamps generated $1.7 million in revenue for the museum, more than five times what it took in attendance, Littman said. The museum charges a $10 fee (and $5 for seniors and students) for a visit to its minimalist home and tranquil gardens, an oasis in the middle of industrial Long Island City. When the museum reopened in September, all on-site programs were canceled and Littman turned an education studio into a temporary Akari showroom. Large and airy with 16 windows, the space overlooks the giant Katsura tree Noguchi brought from Japan in the mid-80s. There, for the first time, more than 110 Akari models glow together.