Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. The European Union could pay more than $10 billion to buy hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines by Pfizer-BioNTech and CureVac, Reuters reported. Hong Kong’s health chief said the city had “probably entered into a new wave of cases,” and authorities will ask more students to stay home. India hit 9 million total Covid-19 cases. Gilead Sciences Inc. said it was “disappointed the WHO guidelines appear to ignore” evidence with regard to the body’s advice to not use the company’s remdesivir drug as a treatment. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Patients currently hospitalized for Covid-19 have climbed since October Source: Covid Tracking Project  The European Union could pay more than $10 billion to buy hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines by Pfizer-BioNTech and CureVac, Reuters reported, citing an unidentified EU official involved in the discussions. The bloc agreed to pay EU15.50, or $18.34, per dose for vaccine candidate of by Pfizer and BioNTech, Reuters reported, citing the official. Reuters said that BioNTech and CureVac had declined to comment, and that a European Commission spokesman declined to comment on terms and pricing. Tokyo found 522 cases of Covid-19 on Friday -- topping 500 infections for the second day -- Japanese broadcaster FNN reports, without attributing the information. The Asian financial hub recorded 26 new coronavirus cases, 21 of which are locally transmitted, Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan said at a briefing. She didn’t provide a breakdown of untraceable cases. “We’ve probably entered into a new wave of cases,” she said. Hong Kong also had more than 30 preliminary positive cases on Friday, Chan said. Authorities will halt in-person classes for primary school levels 1-3 starting Monday for two weeks, due to upper respiratory tract infection outbreaks and Covid-19 concerns -- and won’t rule out stopping classes at all schools if the situation gets worse. Gilead Sciences said it was “disappointed the WHO guidelines appear to ignore” evidence with regard to the organization’s recommendation not to use the company’s remdesivir drug as a treatment for Covid-19. The new WHO guidelines rely on trial data that hasn’t been made publicly available or peer-reviewed, Gilead said. Recommendations by credible institutions for remdesivir use as a standard of care treatment were based on robust evidence from multiple randomized, controlled studies published in peer-reviewed journals that demonstrate remdesivir’s clinical benefits, the company’s statement added. Retired Brigadier General Anthony Tata, a top Pentagon official, tested positive for Covid-19, Bloomberg reported. It’s the second time the outbreak has hit senior ranks of the U.S. military in recent weeks. Tata, 61, was tested for the virus along with other top U.S. defense officials after Lithuanian diplomats informed the Pentagon that Defense Minister Raimundas Karoblis tested positive after visiting the building on Nov. 13 and Nov. 16, Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said in a statement. On Friday last week, Karoblis met with Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller, Tata and the secretaries of the Army and Air Force, Hoffman said. Separately, Karoblis met on Monday with the secretary of the Navy. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that as the Asia-Pacific region turns to economic recovery following the pandemic, countries will need to focus on those most harshly affected -- including indigenous communities and women. Arden, addressing a virtual session as a part of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, said APEC nations were rightly focused on the economic response to Covid-19. “Our recovery needs to focus very heavily on ensuring that we are focused on skills and trade training and job creation that equally addresses those hardest hit areas,” she said. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, speaking in Tokyo, said the country should be on highest alert over the virus, and that authorities would press ahead with health care preparations. Commuters walk through Shinbashi district in Tokyo on Thursday. Photographer: Soichiro Koriyama/Bloomberg Mexico reported 576 new Covid-19 deaths Thursday night, making it the fourth country whose toll from the virus has surpassed 100,000. The nation’s total cases rose 4,472 to 1,019,543, according to data released by the Health Ministry. South Australia will lift its lockdown early and immediately allow outdoor exercise, amid early signs its cluster of Covid-19 infections is being contained. Steven Marshall in Adelaide on Friday. Photographer: Kelly Barnes/Getty Images The original six-day lockdown that began Thursday will end at midnight Saturday, Premier Steven Marshall told reporters. The ban on exercise and even dog-walking had made the state’s measures among the strictest in the world. Governor Gavin Newsom imposed a curfew on the majority of residents to stymie the virus’s transmission, boosting measures to stop an outbreak while stopping short of a full lockdown. The move reflects growing alarm among state officials as the third wave of coronavirus cases to hit California gains momentum. A medical worker administers a Covid-19 test at a testing site in San Francisco, California, on Thursday. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg People in counties designated as having a widespread outbreak -- areas that encompass 37 million people, or 94% of the population -- will have to stop nonessential work and gatherings between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m., according to a statement from Newsom’s office. The order will take effect on Nov. 21 and last for a month. South Korean Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun urged citizens to stay home and cancel gatherings, as the country’s confirmed cases exceeded 300 for a third day. The government will minimize face-to-face meetings from next week, he said in a nationwide address. South Korea earlier reported 363 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours. Photographer: ED JONES/AFP The government urges companies to implement a work-from-home scheme and will push forward the annual state college entrance exam as scheduled in December. South Korea is currently working on securing vaccines, he said. South Korea earlier reported 363 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. BioNTech SE and Moderna Inc. could receive conditional European Union marketing authorization for their Covid-19 vaccines in the second half of next month, according to the head of the bloc’s executive arm. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the European Medicines Agency was in close contact with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration about the evaluation of the shots being developed by both companies. “EMA is in daily calls with the FDA to synchronize the assessment and, if all proceeds with no problems, EMA tells us that the conditional marketing authorization for BioNTech and Moderna could happen as early as the second half of December 2020,” she told reporters after EU leaders discussed the pandemic via video. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus task force coordinator, urged Americans to be vigilant as the pandemic surges across the U.S. But Vice President Mike Pence said President Donald Trump opposes lockdowns and closing schools to curb the spread. Deborah Birx speaks during a news conference in the White House on Thursday. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/CNP/Bloomberg The task force briefed reporters Thursday for the first time since April, after the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended earlier that Americans cancel Thanksgiving travel plans. The events showed that the administration is coming to grips with the pandemic’s rising toll after Trump downplayed the outbreak. The World Health Organization advised against treating hospitalized coronavirus patients with Gilead Sciences Inc.’s remdesivir, weeks after U.S. regulators granted the drug a speedy approval. The recommendation is a blow to the drug, one of the first thought to offer a meaningful benefit in treatment of coronavirus patients after a study showed it reduced their recovery time. The antiviral has been widely used widely to treat Covid-19 -- and was among the drugs President Donald Trump received when he was diagnosed with the disease in October. “There is currently no evidence that it improves survival or the need for ventilation,” a panel of WHO-convened experts developing Covid-19 treatment guidelines said in The BMJ medical journal. Texas had a record 12,293 new coronavirus cases, smashing its old peak from mid-July, when the second most-populous U.S. state saw its first major wave of Covid-19. The new cases-count surged 45% in 24 hours, according to state health department figures Thursday. Governor Greg Abbott earlier ruled out a return to lockdown status to combat surging virus hospitalizations across the Texas, saying proponents overestimate what would be achieved. “Statewide, we’re not going to have another shutdown,” he said during a briefing in Lubbock, one of the state’s worst hot spots. Coronavirus infections continue to rise in the greater Washington region, with more than 5,000 new cases reported on Thursday, a daily record. The Capital itself had 213 new cases and an two additional deaths, according to figures from the mayor’s office, pushing the seven-day average to 167. U.S. INSIGHT: Virus, Vaccine, Fiscal Aid -- 2021 Growth Path The Smithsonian Institution said Thursday on Twitter that it would temporarily close its eight facilities in the Washington region that had recently reopened, including the National Zoo, starting on Monday. No planned reopening date was offered. Takaji Wakita, the head of an expert panel advising the Japanese health ministry, said the current situation was “very severe” and warned that if nothing was done, the chances of the coronavirus spreading more rapidly were “very high,” Kyodo reported Thursday. — With assistance by Karen Leigh, Go Onomitsu, Joe Carroll, Anna Edney, Thuy Ong, Jonathan Stearns, Seyoon Kim, Jeong-Ho Lee, Jon Herskovitz, Mario Parker, Isabel Reynolds, David R Baker, Ed Johnson, Dale Quinn, Jennifer Jacobs, Philip Heijmans, Max Zimmerman, Felix Tam, and Natalie Lung