Chancellor Angela Merkel urged Germans to do more to rein in the coronavirus to avoid the “worst-case scenario” of an overburdened health care system. Speaking in parliament Thursday after extending a partial lockdown until at least Dec. 20, Merkel said restrictions will likely remain in place until early January. On a more upbeat note, she said it’s possible that a vaccine for the virus will be available before Christmas. “We undoubtedly have some difficult months ahead of us again,” Merkel told lawmakers on Thursday. Merkel and the leaders of Germany’s 16 states agreed late Wednesday to tighten limits on private gatherings but kept schools and most businesses operating to help limit the impact on the economy. Merkel’s Chief of Staff, Helge Braun, told RTL there’s even a chance that restrictions will remain in place until March if the disease isn’t reined in. Angela Merkel Photographer: Geert Vanden Wijngaert/Bloomberg There’s no sign of that happening at the moment. Germany registered a record increase in new coronavirus cases during the 24 hours through Thursday morning, bringing the total to just under 1 million. Fatalities, meanwhile, have exceeded 300 for three straight days, the first time that’s occurred since the start of the pandemic. With infection rates surging, German authorities this month ordered restaurants, gyms and cinemas to close. Nations like France and Britain imposed tougher restrictions, and with outbreaks there easing, officials are cautiously moving to loosen curbs ahead of the Christmas holidays. French President Emmanuel Macron said Tuesday that he will gradually lift a nationwide lockdown from Saturday, while restrictions in the U.K. will be eased over Christmas to allow as many as three households to meet indoors. By contrast, Germany’s restrictions have yielded little progress in slowing the spread of the disease. Infection levels are still nearly three times the government’s target rate, and people with the disease in intensive care are at record levels. A partial shutdown hasn't slowed the coronavirus spread in Germany Source: Robert Koch Institute  ”The case numbers have stagnated at far too high a level,” Merkel said. She wants the seven-day incidence per 100,000 citizens to come down to around 50 -- and stay there -- before restrictions can be loosened. It was at 140 on Wednesday, according to the latest report from the RKI public health institute. The chancellor and state premiers will revisit the country’s restrictions on Dec. 15. Germany extended and tightened its “lockdown light.” Here are the key changes: An extension of the partial lockdown isn’t likely enough to reach the target rate by Christmas, according to the Ifo research institute. A more rapid decrease would require tougher measures for schools, retailers or both, the group said. The costs for the shutdown -- including reimbursing affected businesses for most of their lost revenue -- continue to mount. Financial support in December is expected to total as much as 20 billion euros ($23.8 billion), according to people familiar with the negotiations. That could more than double total aid since early November to some 34 billion euros. Merkel said that ultimately, German citizens will determine how successful the country is in tackling the health crisis. “It’s in our hands. We are not powerless,” she said. — With assistance by Birgit Jennen