Piaget Altiplano Ultimate Concept is just 2mm thin. Source: Hodinkee Source: Hodinkee Originally published Nov. 12 on Hodinkee.The 2020 edition of the Grand Prix d’Horlogerie de Genève has just ended, and with its close, all of the night's winners have been announced with Piaget taking home the top prize (aka. the Aiguille D'Or). With more than 80 finalists selected by the new and 350-strong cast of Academy members, there could be only one grand prize among the 14 categories (19 prizes total), and the Altiplano Ultimate Concept took home both the handy statue and the clout of watchmaking's highest honor. Measuring just 2mm thin, the Piaget Altiplano Ultimate Concept is an excellent selection for the GPHG's top prize, exemplifying cutting-edge and decidedly specific watchmaking with the unwavering goal of considerable thinness. That being said, it was far from the event's only selection of note, with Bovet, Breitling, H. Moser, and Van Cleef each claiming two awards each. Also of interest, both Voutilainen and Tudor repeated their category wins from 2019 (Voutilainen for "Men's Watch Prize" and Tudor for "Challenge Watch Prize"). If you didn't happen to follow along with the live stream, the complete list of the 2020 GPHG winners is included below. From dive watches to avant-garde collector's pieces and everything in between, the list of winners offers a look into what the top echelons of the Swiss watch industry hold most dear when it comes to the functional execution of watchmaking – with the incredible engineering and single-minded design of the Piaget Altiplano Ultimate Concept clearly making a connection with the competition's judges. Ladies' Watch Prize: Bovet 1822, Miss Audrey Ladies' Complication Watch Prize: Charles Girardier, Tourbillon Signature Mystérieuse « fleur de sel » Men's Watch Prize: Voutilainen, 28SC Men's Complication Watch Prize: Greubel Forsey, Hand Made 1 Iconic Watch Prize: Bulgari, Aluminium Chronograph Chronometry Watch Prize: Chronométrie Ferdinand Berthoud, FB 2RE.2 Calendar and Astronomy Watch Prize: Vacheron Constantin, Overseas Perpetual Calendar Ultra-Thin Skeleton Mechanical Exception Watch Prize: Bovet 1822, Récital 26 Brainstorm Chapter 2 Chronograph Watch Prize: H. Moser & Cie, Streamliner Flyback Chronograph Automatic Diver's Watch Prize: Breitling, Superocean Automatic 48 Boutique Edition Jewellery Watch Prize: Van Cleef & Arpels, Frivole Secrète watch Artistic Crafts Watch Prize: Van Cleef & Arpels, Lady Arpels Soleil Féerique "Petite Aiguille" Prize: Breitling, Superocean Heritage '57 Limited Edition II Challenge Watch Prize: Tudor, Black Bay Fifty-Eight Innovation Prize: Parmigiani Fleurier, Hijri Perpetual Calendar Audacity Prize: H. Moser & Cie, Endeavour Cylindrical Tourbillon H. Moser X MB&F "Horological Revelation" Prize: Petermann Bédat, Dead beat second Special Jury Prize: Antoine Simonin, watchmaker, teacher, editor, and former director of the WOSTEP FoundationHodinkee is the preeminent resource for modern and vintage wristwatch enthusiasts. Through in-depth reviews, live reports, and dynamic videos, Hodinkee is bringing watches to a 21st-century audience.