Asian stocks pushed toward the highest since February 2018, led by technology and health-care firms, as investors sought out defensive sectors and backed away from bets on a massive economic stimulus package. Gains across Asia Pacific trading were broad based and Hong Kong outperformed, while U.S. equity futures climbed and Nasdaq contracts extended Wednesday’s surge after the American election failed to produce a clear Democratic sweep as some had expected. The reduced likelihood of a multitrillion-dollar package meant a continued bid for Treasuries, with yields extending losses into Thursday. The offshore yuan pared some of its overnight strength. Gauges of volatility from equities to Treasuries and currencies declined. Joe Biden won Michigan and Wisconsin, putting him on the brink of taking the White House from President Donald Trump, hours after the president’s team opened legal fights to stop vote counting in a least two states. Millions of votes in battleground states are still being counted. A narrow victory by either, coupled with a split legislature, will make it unlikely that Trump’s 2017 corporate tax cuts -- an important driver to stock gains -- are rolled back, as Biden has pledged to do. The failure by the Democrats to clearly sweep Congress and the White House does pare back bets that traders had made on a massive fiscal stimulus package, though some aid remains likely this year. At the same time it adds to pressure on the Federal Reserve -- another crucial force behind the bull market -- to pump money into an economy that was throttled by the pandemic. “Up until about last week, the consensus belief was a full blue sweep -- now that’s changing you’re seeing a repricing taking place in the market,” Anna Han, equity strategist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC, said on Bloomberg TV. “We’re seeing a boost today because a more status quo Senate may ease the burden of regulations on the tech sector.” Elsewhere, the pound retreated after a report the Bank of England could announce quantitative easing of as much as 200 billion pounds on Thursday. A decision is due at 7 a.m. London time. Asian dollar bond spreads narrowed Thursday by the most in at least three months, according to traders and a Bloomberg Barclays index. It comes after credit markets continued their optimism Wednesday in New York. These are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sophie Caronello, Kamaron Leach, Claire Ballentine, and Gregor Stuart Hunter