Photographer: Sia Kambou/AFP/Getty Images Photographer: Sia Kambou/AFP/Getty Images Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Ghana criticized cocoa sustainability programs and companies that it said are backtracking on a pledge to pay more for beans in the world’s second-biggest producer. The programs, which allow traders to certify that the chocolate ingredient hasn’t been grown in protected forests or using child labor, benefit less than 10% of the farming population, Ghana Cocoa Board Chief Executive Officer Joseph Boahen Aidoo said at a virtual World Cocoa Foundation meeting Thursday. A $400-a-ton premium on cocoa beans introduced by the government to help support West African farmers is needed to compliment the social programs, he said. The comments represent the latest escalation in a dispute between the largest cocoa-producing nations and some exporters, who have resisted paying a separate premium due to slowing demand, according to people familiar with the matter. Bloomberg reported earlier this week that Ghana and Ivory Coast plan to suspend sustainability programs, which would make it more difficult for traders to access markets that require guarantees that the cocoa has been grown sustainably. Aidoo didn’t call for the programs to be suspended Thursday. While companies last year backed paying the so-called Living-Income Differential premium to support farmers, not all of them are following through on that promise, according to Aidoo. He didn’t mention any companies, but said he’s prepared to “name and shame” them. “Our intelligence indicates that there is even a deliberate ploy and strategy by some brands to derail and collapse” the LID, Aidoo said. Ivory Coast and Ghana have used these programs before to put pressure on companies. They planned to suspend them last year as leverage to get more firms to pay the LID price, before backing off after more buyers committed to paying the premium. Aidoo’s speech comes as concerns about demand and expectations that big West African crops will fuel a global surplus have pressured prices, curbing profits for processors and chocolate makers.