A health worker injects a person during clinical trials for a Covid-19 vaccine in Hollywood, Florida. Moderna Inc. said its Covid-19 vaccine was almost 95% effective in a late-stage trial, another sign of progress in the hunt for tools to fight the pandemic. President-elect Joe Biden said curbing the outbreak is key to the U.S. recovery and urged Congress to pass a stimulus bill this year. Soaring infections may dent efforts to revive the U.S. economy. California has reinstituted bans on many indoor businesses and warned a curfew is possible. Michigan has ordered a three-week partial shutdown. Oregon, Washington and New Jersey have tightened curbs, and Iowa limited gatherings. In Europe, German Chancellor Angela Merkel fell short in a push for tougher restrictions. Sweden is introducing its tightest rules yet as cases spike, and France’s health minister said the country is regaining control of the epidemic thanks to the latest national lockdown. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The daily climb in infections in India dipped below 30,000 for the first time since around mid-July, government data showed. But the capital, New Delhi, is continuing to battle a jump in cases amid cooler weather and heavy pollution. Pfizer Inc. said it started a pilot Covid-19 immunization program in four U.S. states to help refine the plan for the delivery and deployment of the company’s coronavirus vaccine candidate being co-developed with BioNTech SE. The four states -- Rhode Island, Texas, New Mexico, and Tennessee -- were selected based on factors such as differences in overall size, diversity of populations and immunization infrastructure. Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds implemented a limited mask mandate that takes effect Tuesday. Everyone aged two or older has to wear a mask or face covering in indoor public spaces. The rule applies when people are within six feet of others who aren’t members of their households for 15 minutes or longer, though there are some exceptions. Social, community, business and leisure gatherings will be limited to a maximum of 15 people indoors and 30 outdoors. This doesn’t apply to routine office and factory work and spiritual gatherings. Restaurants and bars will have to close for in-person consumption at 10 p.m. under the new rules. The proclamation applies until Dec. 10. South Korea raised social distancing restrictions in greater Seoul to the 1.5 level from 1 after a jump in new cases, according to Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun. That’s the second-lowest level of a five-tier approach tied to infection levels. The number of new, confirmed cases remained above 200 for a fourth day, the longest such streak since August. The European Central Bank will provide enough monetary stimulus at its next meeting to make sure governments, companies and households have access to cheap credit throughout the coronavirus crisis, according to chief economist Philip Lane. “This pandemic is tough enough -- we shouldn’t add to it by having to deal with some kind of credit freeze, having to deal with rising interest rates,” Lane said in an interview with Portuguese TV channel RTP3 on Monday. “Our orientation is to keep financing conditions favorable.” President-elect Joe Biden said containing the coronavirus pandemic is key to the U.S. economic recovery. He also urged Congress to pass a stimulus bill this year to deliver immediate relief to struggling Americans. Biden met with the chief executives of General Motors Co. and Microsoft Corp., as well as key labor leaders, as he begins to outline how to contain the virus and revive the economy during his administration. He lamented the lack of coordination with the outgoing administration as President Donald Trump’s refusal to accept the results of the election has blocked an official transition. “More people may die if we don’t coordinate,” Biden said. He noted that recent positive news about vaccine effectiveness needs to be paired with the “huge undertaking” of getting a vaccine distributed. “If we have to wait until January 20 to start that planning, it puts us behind,” he said. Texas’s virus hospitalizations climbed for an eighth straight day, reaching 7,274, the highest since Aug. 10, according to state health department figures. More than 6,300 new cases were logged. In the state’s second-worst hot spot of Amarillo, 36% of hospital capacity is occupied by Covid-19 patients and there are just eight intensive-care beds available to serve a population of almost half a million. El Paso, which has been ravaged by the latest viral wave more than any other part of Texas, detected 1,550 new cases in the past 24-hour period and has 300 patients in ICU wards. Medical staff treat a Covid-19 patient in Houston, on Saturday. Texas’s virus hospitalizations climbed for an eighth straight day. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images California will put 94% of its population in its most restrictive tier for coronavirus limits after a surge in cases that is “simply without precedent,” Governor Gavin Newsom said Monday. Effective Tuesday, the state is moving 28 counties into the purple category in its four-tier system, indicating widespread transmission and requiring many indoor businesses to close. The regions affected include much of the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego and more rural counties. Los Angeles, the epicenter of the state’s outbreak, has always been in the tightest category. “We are sounding the alarm,” Newsom said in a statement. “California is experiencing the fastest increase in cases we have seen yet.” Philadelphia is setting some of the nation’s tightest restrictions to stop the winter surge of the pandemic, closing high schools, colleges and museums, and ending indoor restaurant dining. “We may be tired of Covid, but Covid’s not tired of us,” city Health Commissioner Tom Farley said in a statement. Elementary and middle schools can remain open, and restaurants are allowed to offer takeout and delivered meals. But performance spaces, gyms, libraries, casinos and senior day service facilities must close down. The city is also proscribing recreational activities and sports for youth. It is setting tighter capacity limits on a wide variety of commerce and group activities that it is allowing to continue. France reported new confirmed Covid cases rose by 9,406 to 1.99 million, the smallest increase since Oct. 12. The seven-day average of infections fell for a ninth consecutive day to 26,251, reaching the lowest level in more than three weeks. Positive tests fell to 16.4%, declining more than 3 points in a week. An empty Trocadero Square in Paris. The country reported deaths linked to the virus increased by 506, to 45,054. Photographer: Nathan Laine/Bloomberg “We’re seeing this decline in France, we’re also seeing it in a number of neighboring countries that took lockdown measures,” Health Minister Olivier Veran said during a visit to Lyon-Bron airport to discuss transfers of Covid patients. “We are gradually regaining control over this epidemic.” The country reported deaths linked to the virus increased by 506, to 45,054. Sweden is introducing its toughest restrictions yet to fight the coronavirus pandemic, after a spike in new cases led to an influx of infected people filling intensive-care beds. From Nov. 24, public gatherings of more than eight people will be banned, Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said. Lofven said the “unprecedented” response was needed if Sweden is to “curb transmission.” New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy will further restrict indoor and outdoor gatherings after daily cases reached a record over the weekend. A maximum of 10 people can gather indoors, down from an earlier restriction of 25. The outdoor gatherings limit will drop to 150 from 500. The state had about 9,000 new cases over the weekend and “it’s going to get worse,” Murphy said. The world may be able to vaccinate enough people to get the coronavirus pandemic under control by mid-2022, said Ugur Sahin, chief executive officer of BioNTech, Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine partner. Countries will need to focus on immunizing as broadly as possible in the first six to eight months of 2021, Sahin said in an online forum hosted by Germany’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung. Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine was 94.5% effective in a preliminary analysis of a large late-stage clinical trial. Analysis from more than 30,000 volunteers showed the vaccine prevented virtually all symptomatic cases of Covid-19. Only five participants who received two doses of the vaccine became sick, compared with 90 coronavirus cases in participants who received a placebo. The vaccine also appeared to be effective in preventing the most serious infections. Stephane Bancel Photographer: Adam Glanzman/Bloomberg “That for me is a game-changer,” Moderna CEO Stephane Bancel said. Moderna said its vaccine is stable at refrigerator temperatures for 30 days, much longer than a previously estimated seven days. For longer-term storage, it can be kept in freezers, though it doesn’t need the special facilities required for the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine. — With assistance by Sunil Jagtiani