Pfizer Inc. said a final analysis of clinical-trial data showed its vaccine was 95% effective, paving the way for the company to apply for the first U.S. regulatory authorization for a coronavirus shot within days. The U.S. gave the green light for the first Covid-19 diagnostic kit for self-testing at home, adding a tool to battle the pandemic as nationwide testing capabilities come under more strain. More U.S. states imposed restrictions to tamp down the unrelenting surge. In New Jersey, the number of patients needing ventilators doubled in a week. In Europe, a protest over Germany’s strategy to quell the virus turned violent. Poland reported a record 603 deaths, and U.K. doctors warned that tough new measures must be in place when England’s lockdown ends. Tokyo reported a record number of new cases Wednesday, surpassing a previous daily high set in August. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Italy registered 753 deaths related to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the biggest daily increase in over seven months. New daily virus cases rose to 34,282 from 32,191 on Tuesday. In the region around Milan, infections are slowing. New cases in Lombardy fell by about 10% versus Tuesday to 7,633, which is also about 7% lower than 7-days ago. Governor Attilio Fontana has said some restriction could be eased at the end of the month if the trend continues in coming weeks. Turkey reported 116 new deaths from coronavirus on Wednesday, its highest daily count since April. The latest data brought Turkey’s total death toll to 11,820, according to the Health Ministry. Turkey stopped reporting all coronavirus cases in July, and has since only reported “patients” who both test positive and display symptoms. On Wednesday there were 4,215 new patients. On Tuesday, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced a weekend curfew between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. Geneva will begin relaxing its Covid restrictions beginning Nov. 21 following a recent plateau of positive cases in the southern Swiss canton. Certain occupations, such as hairdressers, beauticians, barbers, tattooists and therapists, are permitted to work as long as they adhere to cantonal requirements. Prostitution will remain prohibited. German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz defended the government’s latest measures to tackle the coronavirus pandemic, saying they are accepted by most of the population of Europe’s largest economy. Scholz spoke to Bloomberg Television after thousands of people demonstrated in Berlin against legislation approved by parliament Wednesday that expands government powers to tackle the pandemic. “Containing the virus is critical,” Scholz said, citing polls that he said show some 80% of citizens back Chancellor Angela Merkel’s ruling coalition in their efforts to stem the spread of the disease. German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz is defending the government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic. Source: Bloomberg) New Jersey, where hospitalizations have risen by more than one-third in a week, reported even more startling data on Wednesday: Over just 24 hours, the ranks of the sickest soared 44%. On Nov. 10, hospitals had 104 of those patients, who are breathing with assistance of ventilators. A week later, the number was 223, for a 114% increase. Of the 29,455 samples collected statewide on Nov. 13, positivity was 8.73%. Southern New Jersey towns were highest, at 9.91%, while those in the northern part of the state reported 9.21% and central, 7.42%. New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy puts further limts on indoor and outdoor gatherings. Source: Bloomberg) More than 900 Mayo Clinic staff have contracted Covid-19 in the past two weeks, according to a report Tuesday in the TwinCities Pioneer Press. Ninety-three percent of staff who contracted the virus did so in the community and the majority of those who contracted the virus at work did so while eating in a break room with a mask off, newspaper reported, citing a briefing with a dean of clinical practice in Rochester, Minnesota. A Danish study undermined the growing consensus, backed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, that wearing a mask protects people from catching the coronavirus. However, the study didn’t address the idea, which has stronger evidence behind it, that masks prevent people who have the virus from spreading it. Published in the Annals of Internal Medicine, the study concludes that “the recommendation to wear surgical masks to supplement other public health measures did not reduce the SARS-CoV-2 infection rate among wearers by more than 50% in a community with modest infection rates, some degree of social distancing, and uncommon general mask use. The data were compatible with lesser degrees of self-protection.” Still, limitations mean that the findings “should not be used to conclude that a recommendation for everyone to wear masks in the community would not be effective in reducing SARS-CoV-2 infections,” the authors wrote. There will be enough capacity to vaccinate the world until the end of next year, CureVac CEO Franz-Werner Haas told Bloomberg Television in an interview. How long protection lasts and what effect vaccines have on different immune systems remain to be seen, he said, reiterating that it’s good to have more than one shot. Haas said the development of vaccine stability will increase. WATCH: CureVac CEO Franz-Werner Haas discusses progress on the biopharmaceutical company’s Covid-19 vaccine and scale-up for its production. Source: Bloomberg) Iran’s actual number of daily deaths from Covid-19 could top 1,000 on certain days when probable fatalities linked to the virus are taken into account, the Health Ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari said in a televised statement on Wednesday. The country reported its deadliest day of the outbreak on Monday with 486 deaths. Earlier, Iran reported a record jump in its daily new cases for a fourth straight day with 13,421. “We took a more conservative approach to collateral from sectors and industries affected by Covid-19,” Claudio de Sanctis, the head of Deutsche Bank’s International Private Bank, said in a telephone interview, singling out aircraft, commercial real estate, retail and travel. That continues to be the case even as the bank is “supporting our clients, which is reflected in our loan growth in more recent months,” he said. Switzerland wants to increase funding for firms whose businesses have suffered due to the pandemic to 1 billion francs ($1.1 billion). The government in Bern announced the plan on Wednesday. It requires Parliament’s approval. German Chancellor Angela Merkel came under pressure as a protest over her strategy to quell the coronavirus turned violent and a close ally issued a public rebuke. Berlin police used water cannons to break up a large demonstration near Brandenburg Gate. Participants -- which totaled 14,000 people, according to police -- refused to abide by distancing and hygiene rules, while some threw bottles and other objects. Pressure has been growing on German authorities, which are facing a crunch meeting next week to lay out a long-term plan to fight the pandemic. With restrictions likely to be extended and intensified, public anger and political tensions are rising. France is far away from deciding to end the lockdown as the coronavirus situation remains serious, French government spokesman Gabriel Attal told reporters. The government is focusing on “adaptations” of the rules, rather than ending them. No decision has been made on whether stores will be allowed to reopen from Dec. 1 despite encouraging trends. Denmark’s response to a coronavirus mutation in its mink population has cost a Cabinet minister his job. Mogens Jensen, the 57-year-old minister for food and veterinary affairs, is stepping down after losing parliament’s support. European Union regulators offered member governments guidelines on speedy testing for the virus in the latest effort to prevent national health measures from hindering the free movement of people across the bloc. The European Commission recommendation covers the use of rapid antigen tests for detecting Covid-19 in “specific settings.” The commission also urged EU governments to recognize each other’s test results and approved 35.5 million euros ($42.2 million) for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to expand testing in the bloc. Malaysia’s king on Wednesday agreed to declare an emergency in a parliamentary constituency in the Borneo state of Sabah to delay a by-election there. The country has struggled to contain a growing cluster of infections that emerged in late September after local elections in Sabah. New cases in the nation remained above 1,000 for five days through Tuesday. Pfizer Inc. said a final analysis of clinical-trial data showed its Covid-19 vaccine was 95% effective, paving the way for the company to apply for the first U.S. regulatory authorization for a coronavirus shot within days. The U.S. drugmaker and partner BioNTech SE said their vaccine protected people of all ages and ethnicities, with no significant safety problems so far in a trial that includes almost 44,000 participants. WATCH: Pfizer Inc. and partner BioNTech SE said their Covid-19 vaccine was 95% effective in a final-analysis trial. Source: Bloomberg) Most Indonesians would want to be vaccinated against the virus, but many are unwilling to pay for it. A September survey involving 115,000 respondents found that about 65% want to be inoculated, while just 8% would refuse and 27% were hesitant. However, only one-third of those who said they want to get the shots would be inclined to shoulder the cost, while the rest said they wouldn’t pay or were hesitant to do so. Indonesia is banking on an ambitious vaccination plan in facing Southeast Asia’s largest outbreak. Austria reported 109 deaths of patients with the coronavirus, the first time the pandemic claimed more than 100 per day, bringing the total to 2,054. While the 7-day incidence of new positive tests fell for the fifth straight day, showing a modest impact of limited lockdown measures imposed two weeks ago, it takes more time for the reduction to show in hospitalizations or fatalities. The country reported 7,091 new cases, 5.6% less than a week earlier. The number of active cases, which had dropped yesterday, was again slightly up. — With assistance by Mark Schoifet, Seyoon Kim, Rachel Chang, Max Reyes, Emily Ashton, Kazunori Takada, Gearoid Reidy, Go Onomitsu, Jeff Sutherland, Ed Johnson, Kara Wetzel, Arys Aditya, Claire Jiao, Devidutta Tripathy, Suttinee Yuvejwattana, Randy Thanthong-Knight, Jinshan Hong, Emma Court, Andrew Blackman, Slav Okov, Cedric Sam, Elise Young, and Patrick Sykes