Democratic nominee Joe Biden is closing in on the 270 electoral votes he needs to win the presidency, while President Donald Trump’s path to re-election has narrowed. Biden needs a win in one more state -- Pennsylvania, Georgia, Nevada or North Carolina -- provided that other race calls stand. But Trump has sought a recount in Wisconsin, filed lawsuits in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Georgia and complained about various states’ counting procedures. Other developments: The Trump campaign claimed a small victory Thursday morning when a court ordered Philadelphia election officials to watch the counting of mail-in and absentee ballots from as close as 6 feet. By noontime, the city filed a petition with Pennsylvania’s Supreme Court asking it to allow an appeal to overturn that order. The city briefly stopped counting mail ballots amid the legal dispute, but has resumed, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported. The dispute is over a complaint that observers from campaigns and political parties who are permitted to watch the process were being kept too far away from the city workers who are opening envelopes, flattening ballots and scanning them. Rudy Giuliani, speaking for the campaign, said Wednesday that the observers were being kept as far as 30 feet away. An order from Judge Christine Fizzano Cannon of Commonwealth Court on Thursday morning had required the city to allow all approved observers to watch from within 6 feet while following Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks. Trump tweeted “big legal win in Pennsylvania!” shortly before the appeal to the state’s high court. Pennsylvania is among a handful of states that may determine the winner of the presidential election. -- Mark Niquette New election results from the Nevada Secretary of State showed Biden’s lead over Trump has grown to 11,787 votes, or roughly 1 percentage point. The fresh numbers included tens of thousands of mail-in and provisional ballots counted in Clark and Washoe Counties, home to Las Vegas and Reno respectively. They come after a day of whiplash with both county and state officials initially promising new numbers only to later advise that they would appear on Thursday. Democratic stronghold Clark County has drawn particular attention; Hillary Clinton won the county by 10.7 percentage points in 2016, and won the state by 2.4 percentage points. Trump’s campaign announced a lawsuit alleging voter fraud at the Clark County Election Department shortly before latest results were announced. The lawsuit will claim that thousands of people cast ballots in the election who no longer live in the state. It follows other Trump campaign lawsuits in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Georgia. The state has not released official data on how much of the vote has been counted so far. No matter what, the numbers will not be final until the state’s final canvass on Nov. 16. Mail-in ballots postmarked on Election Day are accepted by clerks until Nov. 10, while rejected ballots can be cured by voters until Nov. 12. -- Laura Bliss Legal challenges being filed in several states by Trump’s campaign “are meritless” and should be seen as “part of a broader misinformation campaign that involves some political theater,” says Bob Bauer, a top Biden adviser and former Obama White House counsel. On a call with reporters, Bauer said the lawsuits are “intended to create a large cloud” over the election results, but “it’s not a very thick cloud,” he added. The Trump campaign has filed election-related lawsuits in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Georgia and says it intends to do so in Nevada. -- Jennifer Epstein and Tyler Pager Many of the yet-to-be-counted ballots in Georgia are coming from the counties containing Savannah and most of Atlanta, according to new data from the state. Of six counties with significant ballots uncounted, four voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016 and two voted for Trump. Of the four Democratic-leaning counties, Chatham County, home to Savannah, has the most to count, with 17,157 remaining, Gabriel Sterling, the state’s voting system implementation manager, said Thursday morning. And Fulton County, which includes most of Atlanta, has more than 11,000. WATCH: Georgia official Gabriel Sterling assures voters that every ballot will be counted. Source: Bloomberg Then comes Clayton, a primarily African American county just south of Atlanta, with about 7,400. Gwinnett, Georgia’s second largest county, has about 7,300 ballots outstanding. Those figures could be a boon to Biden who would need to make up an 18,000 vote deficit to win the state. The two counties that supported Trump in 2016 are Forsyth, north of Atlanta, with around 4,700 untabulated ballots, and Bryan, a rural county near Savannah that has 3,000 outstanding. “I am prayerful that we will get to a resolution by the end of today,” Sterling said. -- Michael Sasso and Margaret Newkirk At least three protests are planned Thursday evening in New York City, including a march near an area that saw a confrontation between police and demonstrators on Wednesday night that resulted in more than two dozen arrests. That march will begin at 5 p.m. at the Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village, the site of a landmark uprising by the gay community more than 50 years ago and a common site for civil-rights demonstrations. The New York City Police Department made 25 arrests and issued 32 summonses on Wednesday after peaceful gatherings calling for all votes to be counted escalated into confrontations between police and protesters in the West Village. There were scuffles that resulted in arrests as police in riot gear attempted to keep demonstrators out of the street. Police threw some demonstrators to the ground to make arrests, while protesters screamed and taunted officers. An NYPD news release didn’t go into detail on circumstances leading to the arrests, which included a crowd containment technique called “kettling,” in which officers use bicycles or metal barriers to pen in groups of demonstrators. Among those arrested was a woman videotaped spitting in the face of a sergeant during a street confrontation and people accused of punching officers, breaking windows and possessing a stun gun, police said. “We appreciate and value the importance of freedom of speech,” the NYPD said in a tweet. “Our top priority is and always will be safety.” -- Fola Akinnibi, Henry Goldman and Mark Abramson Pennsylvania is making progress counting its mail-in ballots, and Biden is winning a bigger share of the vote so far in the Democratic “collar counties” around Philadelphia than Hillary Clinton did in 2016. Trump’s lead in Pennsylvania, whose 20 Electoral College votes could settle the race, has shrunk to fewer than 165,000 votes from as many as 675,000 on Wednesday as the outstanding ballots, which favor Democrats, are counted. Biden is winning 77% of the mail-in votes for president so far, Department of State data show. Almost 71% of the 2.6 million mail-in ballots statewide have been tallied, with about 763,000 remaining, according to the Department of State’s dashboard. Democratic-dominated Philadelphia, the most-populous county, reported that 233,583 of its more than 350,000 mail-in and absentee ballots had been counted as of 9 a.m. local time. Allegheny County, Pennsylvania’s second-most populous and a Democratic stronghold, said it finished counting its outstanding ballots late Wednesday night, with Biden winning almost 59% of the total based on the strength of his vote from mail ballots. Biden is also carrying Philadelphia’s collar counties of Bucks, Chester, Delaware and Montgomery by a greater margin so far than Clinton did in 2016, beating Trump by a combined 63,000 votes more than Clinton did when Trump won the commonwealth by 44,292 votes, unofficial results reported by the counties show. -- Mark Niquette With counting continuing in numerous counties throughout Georgia, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger said that as of 9:15 a.m. there were approximately 61,000 ballots outstanding. He said election officials had planned to keep counting through this morning and are “on pace to accomplish that responsibly.” “We’re well aware that with a close presidential election and the possibility of runoffs in some elections that the eyes of the state and the nation are upon Georgia at this time,” Raffensperger said. “We’re as anxious as anyone to see the final results and to start work on certification and planning for our runoff elections. As the work goes on, I want to assure Georgia voters that every legal vote was cast and accurately counted.” Georgia will have at least one runoff for a Senate seat in January. -- Margaret Newkirk Trump’s campaign is planning a Thursday morning press conference in Las Vegas to announce the filing of a lawsuit alleging that at least 10,000 people voted illegally in Nevada, Fox News reported. The lawsuit will claim that the ballots were cast in Nevada by people who no longer live there, Fox said. Former acting Director of National Intelligence Ric Grenell, Former Nevada Attorney General Adam Laxalt, American Conservative Union Chairman Matt Schlapp and Nevada GOP Chair Michael McDonald will attend the event, planned for 11:30 a.m. New York time. The Trump campaign has already filed campaign-related lawsuits in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Georgia. -- Kathleen Hunter Arizona Secretary of State Katie Hobbs said her state has just under 450,000 ballots left to count, with about 300,000 of those coming from the state’s most populous area, Maricopa County. Hobbs, in an interview on NBC, said she did not yet have an estimate about how long it would take to count the remaining votes but hopes to have an update later on Thursday. In a separate interview on ABC, she said she doesn’t expect the result to be so close as to merit a recount. Under the state’s rules, a recount is triggered if the margin between candidates is less than or equal to 0.1% of the votes cast. The Associated Press and Fox News have both called the race for Biden, although other television networks haven’t. Maricopa County counted more than 100,000 ballots on Wednesday, which could be an indication of the pace of the counting for the remaining votes, Hobbs said. If the county were to continue at the rate, it could take up to three days to finish tabulating all the outstanding ballots. The remaining ballots are mostly early ballots that were dropped off at polling places on Election Day, so signatures have to be verified before those votes can be tabulated, Hobbs said. -- Laura Davison Nearly 60 people were arrested in Manhattan overnight as peaceful demonstrations turned into heated confrontations with police, the New York Times reports. The incidents, which took place in the West Village and near Union Square, occurred after police attempted to break up crowds of protesters, the paper said. WATCH: Police made arrests in New York City as peaceful demonstrations turned into heated confrontations. Source: Bloomberg In the West Village incident, protesters, who had been hemmed in by police, yelled, “Why are you in riot gear, we don’t see no riot here,” according to the Times. -- Kathleen Hunter Nevada offers Biden his tightest path to the presidency. Its six Electoral College votes would give him precisely the number he needs, assuming other states’ unofficial tallies hold up. By Wednesday night, he held a slim 7,600-vote lead over Trump there. With the tabulation of the U.S. election spilling over into a third day, Trump’s leads in Pennsylvania and Georgia have shrunk as mail-in ballots and backlogs of votes from major cities including Philadelphia and Atlanta are counted. Either comes with more than enough Electoral College votes, and both offer Biden a tantalizing chance to flip a state Trump won in 2016. While the Trump campaign pursues a Wisconsin recount and lawsuits elsewhere, some of its supporters have gone public with their displeasure. Alaska and North Carolina, two states where Trump is leading, also have not yet been called. -- Ryan Teague Beckwith With Nevada election results still unresolved, a small group of Trump supporters gathered outside the Clark County Elections Department in Las Vegas Wednesday night to protest what they called an unfair vote-counting process. Footage of a larger group waving pro-Trump flags and signs in the same location earlier in the evening spread on social media under the hashtag “#StoptheSteal.” Protesters who remained outside after 9:30 p.m. complained of not being allowed to observe election workers and criticized recent changes to Nevada election law that enabled mail-in voting, which they said widened the window for “fraud.” Earlier in the day, the Nevada Republican Party issued a statement referring to concerns about invalid ballots and a lack of transparency around the vote-counting process in Clark County. Joe Gloria, the county registrar of voters, said at a press conference that the department is “statutorily required to let anybody witness everything that we count.” Gloria added that the county had to remove a few poll observers who were disrupting workers. He was interrupted by a shouting Biden opponent. In Reno, a similar group of protesters appeared outside the Washoe County Registrar of Voters office, but it dissipated quickly, said Bethany Drysdale, a county communications manager. Earlier Wednesday, hundreds of people converged outside a ballot-counting facility in Detroit, chanting “Stop the count.” And in Arizona’s Maricopa County, demonstrators gathered outside a building where ballots were being tabulated, according to social media posts and CNN. The right-wing personality Mike Cernovich led a protest at the state capitol in Phoenix. -- Sarah Holder, Laura Bliss and Brenna Goth — With assistance by Ryan Teague Beckwith, John Harney, Brentin Mock, Christopher Yasiejko, Amanda Albright, David Welch, Jeff Green, Gabrielle Coppola, Jennifer Kay, Michael Smith, Andrew Ballard, Brenna Goth, Margaret Newkirk, Michael Sasso, Alexander Ebert, Elise Young, Chris Dolmetsch, Michelle Fay Cortez, David Wethe, Laura Bliss, Sarah Holder, Shruti Singh, Keith Laing, Jennifer Epstein, Alyza Sebenius, William Turton, Monte Reel, and Joe Schneider