Even for crypto, this has been a mind-blowing week. The culmination was Wednesday’s meltdown, which sent Bitcoin down more than 30% intraday and Ether plunging over 40% with other digital assets also suffering. Though everything bounced back quickly,   billions of dollars and hundreds of thousands of traders were liquidated, according to Bybt.com. That came after some more tweets from Tesla founder Elon Musk, who continues to debate the relative environmental damages from Bitcoin, as well as a caution about crypto from the People’s Bank of China. While the PBOC statement appeared to be a reiteration of prior warnings like in 2017, it still injected nerves into a market where the prospect of further regulations or restrictions looms large. It wasn’t long after that news that the tumble occurred, though some veterans said not to worry too much. “They just want caution,” Bobby Lee, founder and chief executive officer of crypto storage provider Ballet, said at the time. “They feel the market is over-hyped, there’s speculative trading, they’re looking out for the best interests of the people.” As if all that weren’t enough, the U.S. on Thursday and, as part of a proposal to strengthen tax compliance, said it wants crypto transfers of $10,000 and up  to be reported to the Internal Revenue Service. That caused Bitcoin to dip again, though not in a dramatic way.  No matter what asset class, volatility can make things tricky. Those taking big risks, and newbies, are prime candidates to suffer. But for crypto, it’s also a reminder to those who have watched those big price gains and felt the FOMO (fear of missing out) that things can go two ways. When Tesla bought $1.5 billion of Bitcoin, it sparked conversations about whether other corporations might follow that example. But now that Musk has soured on Bitcoin, even if it’s related to fossil-fuel concerns, any company thinking about a crypto purchase might get cold feet. As for the interest from China and the U.S.: While some in crypto harbor a strong preference for decentralized and anonymous operations, there’s also a line of thinking that says greater regulation will help attract people to crypto because they would feel more protected. So not everyone automatically sees regulation as a bad thing (though it also depends massively on what, exactly, the regulations are). It’s easy to forget that Bitcoin and Ether are still up for the year — and up significantly, with gains of about 40% and 280%, respectively. So the long-term thesis of growth in crypto remains intact. Still, with Bitcoin more than $20,000 off its mid-April record, it appears to have lost momentum. And with the price declines happening just as the world is fretting about price increases, it doesn’t appear to be holding up all that well as an inflation hedge, at least at present. Under extreme stress, the decentralized finance system worked as designed. We’ll send curated alerts directly to your inbox on only the most important developments.