Source: Hodinkee Source: Hodinkee Originally published by Hodinkee.Every watch comes off the factory floor with an official name – or at least a reference number. But a nickname? Watches have to earn a nickname. First, the community of watch lovers has to care enough to bestow one, and then, that name has to be good enough to catch on. The best ones supersede whatever the company had in mind, much in the way that the sports world decided the young man born as Earvin Johnson would instead be known as "Magic." Nicknames are fun. Nicknames are cool. They're also pragmatic. They make a watch easier to remember. They capture the shape of the case, or the color of the bezel, or an important person who wore it. The "why" becomes less important over time. The nickname is what lasts. For our own amusement, and because this is what we do for a living, we recently made a list of every important watch nickname in existence (we stopped at 60, though we could have kept going). Then we debated and ranked our favorites, based on each name's originality, how well it captures the spirit of the watch, and how widely used it's become. And now, we bring our dozen favorites to you. "Padellone" is the Italian word for "frying pan," and the name has been applied, as far as I'm aware, to at least two watches. The first, and probably the better known, is a Rolex – the ref. 8171 triple calendar with moon-phase. This is something of a unicorn watch for serious Rolex collectors – when one came up for auction last year at Phillips Geneva, it went for CHF 980,000 – and it's easy to understand why. It's a watch with tremendous personality – the muscular case has oodles of character and contrasts beautifully with the (for Rolex) quite complicated dial. The other is the Patek Philippe ref. 3448, which debuted in 1962 (the same year that brought us Dr. No and the Cuban Missile Crisis). Like the Rolex, it's a calendar complication with moon-phase, but packing serious horological heat in the form of the caliber 27-460 perpetual calendar. Although they are very different watches in terms of horological sophistication, what they do have in common is the frying-pan vibe. Both have for-their-time oversized cases, and both have slab-sided case flanks and large, sharply angled bezels – the two together would make a lovely, two-watch collection, if your finances can withstand getting out of the frying pan and into the fire. – Jack Forster "Disco Volante" means flying saucer, and over the years, the nickname has applied – whether organically by enthusiasts, or optimistically by auctioneers – to any number of watches (often with dramatically stepped or otherwise unusual bezels). One of the most classic examples is the Patek Philippe ref. 2552, which was produced for about six years (1954-1960) and which epitomizes the many interesting experiments that took place among high-end watch brands, with unusual case designs, in the period just after the end of World War II. The 2552 has a fairly wide, stepped bezel and uses the Patek Philippe caliber 12-600 – the company's first automatic movement – along with a screwed-in caseback. It looks today like a rather restrained watch, but in 1955, it must have seemed very unusual for Patek – and irresistibly reminiscent of the saucers that seemed to be crowding into the skies and into the public's imagination. – Jack Forster What watch would Darth Vader wear? A Heuer Monaco Reference 74033N, aka the "Dark Lord," named after a devilish fantasy archetype hellbent on power. Think Sauron from Lord of the Rings or Voldemort from Harry Potter. The Dark Lord is essentially the Monaco that Steve McQueen made famous, but rendered in a spooky, blacked-out, menacingly matte PVD case. The dial is monochromatic, with the only pop of color coming from fluorescent 1970s orange on the hands associated with the chronograph functions. It's the watch Luke Skywalker might have worn had he fully yielded to the ways of the Dark Side and wielded a tangerine-colored lightsaber. – Cole Pennington Creating a lasting icon takes a special mix of perfect timing, indelible appeal, and no small amount of personality. The same is true of watches, perhaps doubly so for the Universal Genève Compax "Nina Rindt," a stunning panda dial motorsports chronograph that earned its nickname thanks to its regular presence on the wrist of Nina Rindt, a model and the wife of one Jochen Rindt, a massively talented Austrian Formula One diver from the mid-to-late 1960s.  So prolific was the trackside pairing of Nina and her bund-borne UG that the white-on-black version of the watch was soon known as the "Evil Nina." Insanely collectible and deeply connected to the golden era of motorsports, Nina only adds to the Compax's considerable clout. It's still exciting to imagine Jochen hunting pole position as she timed laps from the pits using her beloved chronograph. – James Stacey The Omega Speedmaster ref. 105.003 is called the "Ed White" with good reason – it's the reference astronaut Ed White wore when he became the first American to perform a spacewalk during the Gemini IV mission in 1964. White died during a launch-pad test of Apollo 1 systems only a year later, but the watch lives on to commemorate his pioneering role in manned space flight. It's one of my favorite nicknames for a lot of reasons. I'm old enough to remember watching men walk on the Moon on live TV, and the Speedmaster was the first watch I can remember wanting (thanks to its advertising campaign, I don't think there was a would-be astronaut anywhere who didn't know the Gemini and Apollo astronauts wore Speedmasters). Second, the name and the watch represent the early, heady days of manned space flight, when giant space stations, moon bases, and maybe even an exciting alien invasion or two seemed right around the corner. Thirdly, the watch itself is a classic reference and one whose details still have the power to quicken the pulse of any Speedmaster enthusiast. What I like most about the nickname, though, is that it represents more than a watch. It's the name of a brave individual who lost his life, far too young, in the cause of expanding human knowledge and helping us take our first tentative steps into a larger universe. The Ed White Speedmaster will always remind me of the man who uttered something even more poignant and memorable than Neil Armstrong's first words on the lunar surface. White was so entranced by his experience during his spacewalk that he had to be ordered back into the capsule by ground control, at which point he said, "I'm coming back in…and it's the saddest moment of my life." – Jack Forster The only thing missing from the Rolex "Hulk" Submariner is a pair of ripped purple shorts. It's not the first nickname given to a Sub, but we think it's the best. Other contenders include the "Kermit," (so named for its green bezel and…well, that's pretty much it), and the white-gold, blue-bezel "Smurf." But in the end, neither of those packs as strong of a punch as the Hulk. Unlike the Kermit, the statement-making Hulk is all green, with a sunray dial to boot. And it earns its nickname with more than just color. This green beast was released in 2010, into the then-new Rolex maxi-case – with a wider, more hulking profile and a scratch-resistant ceramic bezel. Of all the Submariner nicknames, this one really earned its moniker. It's the kind of watch you look at, hear the name, and go, "yeah, I get it." – Danny Milton The reference 6542 has a lot going for it. For one, it's Rolex's first-ever GMT. Second, it has the infamous bakelite bezel known for its fragility and very minor radioactivity. And finally, it has a nickname that's impossible to forget: "Pussy Galore," the watch famously worn by the late Honor Blackman in her role as a villain in one of my personal favorite James Bond films, Goldfinger. (It's the one where Shirley Eaton is murdered via gold body paint). Galore is Goldfinger's personal pilot (hence the 6542). She meets Bond and rebuffs his advances, but is ultimately seduced by him – all while wearing this badass watch. The Pussy Galore is one of the few watches named after a woman. The only other example I can think of is the Nina Rindt...that is until the "Cara" catches on. – Cara Barrett Some of you are wondering which Snowflake, because there's more than one. But the truth is that we love Snowflakes from both Switzerland and Japan. The original is the second-generation Tudor Submariner, early examples of which date to 1969. These Tudor Subs earned the moniker due to their unusual Snowflake hour hands, which made a stark contrast with the Mercedes hands of earlier Tudor Subs and, more famously, Rolex Submariners. Collectors love these watches, and searching for vintage examples, one will find both black and blue-dialed variations of the Tudor "Snowflake" Sub. The latter of these was honored earlier this year when Tudor came out with the Black Bay Fifty-Eight Navy Blue, calling to mind a watch worn by the French Marine Nationale. When you have a design that has inspired a quirky nickname like Snowflake, you simply have to bring it back. And that's just what Tudor's done with its Black Bay and Pelagos lines, both of which sport Snowflake hands. Another Snowflake, of course, belongs to Grand Seiko. But in the case of that company's ref. SBGA211, the nickname comes from the wispy texture of its soft white dial, which quite effectively calls to mind freshly fallen snow. Coined by fans, the apt sobriquet captures the essence of a watch that's achieved a cult-like following since it came out 10 years ago, becoming one of Grand Seiko's most popular references and easily its best-known nickname. There are other watches from Grand Seiko that play on the Snowflake theme. There's the Blue Snowflake SBGA407, also called the Skyflake, with a light-blue textured dial. There's also one with red accents on its white textured dial. You guessed it: It's called the Red Snowflake. It seems like sister brand Seiko wasn't content to let Grand Seiko keep all the Snowflakes to itself. When it released a similar-looking watch in the SARX055, collectors took to calling it the "Baby GS Snowflake." – Jon Bues Picking a single Seiko nickname is hard, as dozens of alternative (and deserving) monikers exist to help fans sort through the world of Seiko's endless reference numbers. We love them all, from the "Turtle" to the "Monster," but our favorite is the distinctive, overbuilt, and entirely charming Seiko "Tuna." Originally launched in 1975, the O.G. Tuna is the heavily shrouded and entirely dive-ready reference 6159-7110, which was an incredibly cutting-edge design at the time. Since then, the name has graced various iterations of Seiko's extra-chunky dive watch, including those with quartz movements, the much-loved SBDX005 and SBDX011, the Seiko Arnie, the "Baby Tuna", and many many more. While nicknames serve as a vital shorthand for any and all Seiko enthusiasts, this one's special. For a tough, burly, and entirely unapologetic dive watch that sits loud and proud on your wrist, it's tough to out-dive a Tuna. – James Stacey If you're trying to conceal an extramarital affair, you generally don't want a record of the tryst engraved in gold. But that didn't stop Marilyn Monroe from presenting John F. Kennedy with a Rolex Day-Date inscribed on the caseback as follows: JACKWith love as alwaysfromMARILYNMay 29th, 1962 Kennedy, recognizing that Monroe had just blown up his spot in the form of a luxury timepiece, chose not to wear the watch. But he became the first president to own the exciting new Rolex Day-Date, which had been released in 1956, and his successor Lyndon Johnson became the first president to strut around the White House with one on his arm. The watch has been known as the President ever since, though JFK's could just as easily have been nicknamed the Mullet: business up front, party in the back. – Nick Marino The moniker 'Paul Newman' is so commonplace in the watch collecting community now that it's almost hard to believe it was called anything else. But when it was first released in the 1960s, it was referred to as an "Exotic Dial" Daytona because of the unusual square-ended markers on the sub-dials. And as the story goes, no one wanted them. Fast forward to the early 1990s, Italian and American watch dealers started picking up these exotic dial Daytonas by the hundreds (no joke) and gave them the new title of 'Paul Newman' Daytona, all because of one famous photo of a certain blue-eyed actor. The name stuck. What is now arguably the most famous (or at least recognizable) vintage watch drew its identity from a singular image of a singular man, and it changed the entire way we think about and collect vintage watches. – Cara Barrett Take one look at the red-and-blue color scheme on the Rolex GMT-Master and GMT-Master II, and you'll know why it's called the "Pepsi" – though it's worth remembering that the original inspiration came from yet another company, Pan American Airways, as the watch was originally made for Pan Am pilots. Pan Am collapsed in 1991, and Pepsi has been using red and blue in its logo since the 1950s, so the soft-drink firm made a natural reference point in replacement. In a funny way, the watch marks an early example of two mega-brands coming together for a collaboration, however unofficial this one may be. Pepsi currently ranks no. 36 on the Forbes Most Valuable Brands list, with Rolex at no. 80. The omnipresence of both of these brands makes the cross-recognition easy and has allowed the nickname to transcend niche watch collecting circles into the world at large. It's an obvious nickname, and that's refreshing. That's what I like. – Cole PenningtonHodinkee is the preeminent resource for modern and vintage wristwatch enthusiasts. Through in-depth reviews, live reports, and dynamic videos, Hodinkee is bringing watches to a 21st-century audience.