A key European weather forecast closely watched by energy traders showed swathes of the continent are more likely to be warmer than previously anticipated. That’s the conclusion of forecasters at the European Union’s Copernicus Climate Change Service, who updated their long-term weather outlook Friday. The previous prospects for winter were more uncertain for key Atlantic energy markets, opening the possibility for a return to temperatures that could buck a recent warming trend. The November seasonal forecast is traditionally the most closely monitored by traders who are on the lookout for areas in the northern hemisphere where cooler temperatures could stoke demand for natural gas and power. Last year Europe had its hottest winter on record, resulting in fewer heating days. The abnormally high temperatures in the last year curbed energy demand, costing the industry billions of dollars in lost revenue. Producers from Russia to Norway curtailed gas supplies because everyone from homeowners to heavy industry didn’t need as much heat as usual. Copernicus Climate Change Service Copernicus Climate Change Service This year’s forecast shows that heating markets across large parts of Belgium, France, Germany, Netherlands and the U.K. have just a 40% to 50% chance of having temperatures well-above historical norms, slightly lower than last year’s expectations. Parts of Italy, Scandinavia and eastern Europe have a higher probability of hotter weather. The Copernicus model combines data from scientists in the U.K., France, Germany, Italy and the U.S. The EU program uses billions of measurements from satellites, ships, aircraft and weather stations around the world for its monthly and seasonal forecasts and concluded that 2019 was the continent’s hottest year on record. Copernicus Climate Change Service Scandinavian countries, which get about half their power from hydro plants, have a 40% to 50% probability of receiving well-above average levels of precipitation through February, according to the Copernicus data. The Iberian Peninsula has a 40% to 50% chance of receiving well-below average levels of rain this winter. Copernicus Climate Change Service Globally, Copernicus reported with certainty that states in the U.S. southwest and along the Gulf Coast will experience hotter-than-normal weather. New York and New England have a 60% to 70% probability of experiencing an unusually warm winter.