A young skateboarder walks though a boarded up Park Square in Boston in September. Photographer: Stan Grossfeld/The Boston Globe via Getty Images Photographer: Stan Grossfeld/The Boston Globe via Getty Images This is the second of two stories about teens in the pandemic. Read the first one  here. Since March, when school buildings across Michigan closed in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, Madeleine Kauffman has been attending class online. But she still goes to the school itself: The 14-year-old Ann Arbor resident sometimes meets up with friends there. It’s a familiar place, and one where they feel safe. Plus, there isn’t really anywhere else to go. “It’s pretty frustrating,” she says. “Some of us live near the school, so usually we just walk around there, but we don’t really get to see each other much.” Pacing the grounds of a closed building is also a poignant reminder of everything Kauffman has lost. When school shut down, so did much of her social life. Eight months into the pandemic, life under coronavirus restrictions has proven especially hard on teens, who, despite being at lower risk from the virus itself, have fewer opportunities to be with their peers than perhaps any other demographic. As of late November, only about 35% of K-12 students in the U.S. are attending in-person classes daily, according to Burbio, a data service that aggregates school and community calendars; the rest are doing either fully remote or attending a mix of in-person and online classes. After-school activities and sports are likewise limited, and many libraries and youth centers are closed indefinitely. For many younger people, teen life has largely migrated online, to social media platforms like Instagram and Discord. “Isolation is a big issue for young people right now,” says Tamar Mendelson, director of the Center for Adolescent Health at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore. “Adolescence is a time of incredible growth and development. A big piece of that is developing more of a social identity, and that’s getting disrupted a lot during Covid. Young people are resilient, and they’re adept at technology, but it’s a hard adjustment.” While the pandemic may be an extreme situation, it has also thrown into relief a problem that predated the novel coronavirus: Many public spaces, which are now the only places where teens can safely meet their friends, are not designed to accommodate them. Talk of child-friendly cities has recently been on the rise, but it tends to focus on how communities can better serve families with younger children, with amenities like playgrounds, stroller-accessible transit and childcare options. Adolescents, on the other hand, are often an afterthought — or, through anti-teen policies or hostile design, they may be deliberately excluded. Simply hanging with friends outside can be fraught, as reflected by the abundance of NextDoor posts warning of teenagers occupying parks and playgrounds. Retail districts can be similarly unwelcoming. Even in pre-Covid days, teens often came under suspicion in malls, fast-food restaurants and shopping centers. Some business owners deploy a device called “The Mosquito” to play an annoying, high-pitched sound that only the young can hear. Anti-loitering rules often target those under 18 — the privately-run downtown area of Miami Lakes, Florida, offers an especially egregious example — and age-based curfews, in many places a legacy of Clinton-era efforts to curb juvenile delinquency, limit the time teens can be on the street. By 2009, according to Johns Hopkins research, more than 80% of U.S. cities with populations greater than 180,000 had such laws, and the National Youth Rights Association now lists more than 400 jurisdictions nationwide with youth curfews. Meanwhile, this year many cities expanded or revived curfews in response to the pandemic and protests against racism and police violence. “If I’m out with friends, even if we’re distanced, we’re worried about being looked at suspiciously.” Research has cast doubt on whether curfews reduce crime, and they are likely to be disproportionately enforced against teens of color, says Hannah Benton Eidsath, a senior attorney with the National Center for Youth Law. And while the penalty for breaking curfew may only be a fine, a citation often serves as an introduction to a justice system that can feel bewildering and unfair. “It impacts how a youth sees the justice system, which is inflicting this fine on them that in many cases they have absolutely no way to pay,” Eidsath says. Unpaid fines can follow young people into adulthood, affecting their credit scores long after the alleged violation. “Adolescence is an exciting time in terms of development, and what youth are learning shapes their worldview and their future. Don’t we want youth to be learning positive lessons?” A fairer justice system is among the chief concerns of the youth involved with a project called Growing Up Boulder. Founded in 2009 at the University of Colorado, Growing Up Boulder has helped young people advise the city on park design, transit planning and discussions about affordable housing. Last year, as CityLab reported, the program produced a child-friendly city map aimed at parents with children 10 and under. This year, the program’s Youth Leaders are focusing on making Boulder more hospitable to older adolescents, working to open a dialogue with Boulder’s new police chief about reforming the department. “I think for Boulder to become a better city for youth it needs to have youth involved in the planning and discussion of just about anything that impacts them,” says 18-year-old Eliana Valenzuela, who joined the effort this year. “At the end of the day they are the ones that are going to continue living in Boulder.” Police reform may be a long-term project, but Boulder teens also want to feel safe going about their lives during the pandemic, says Lerato Osnes, 17. “If I’m out with friends, even if we’re distanced, we’re worried about being looked at suspiciously,” says Osnes, who has spent a lot of time over the past several months hanging out in parks, picnicking under trees and hiking the city’s many trails. Park access is now more important than ever, notes Mara Mintzer, Growing Up Boulder’s co-founder and program director. Epidemiologists have warned against gathering indoors, where the coronavirus spreads more readily, but teens are natural risk-takers in the best of times, and Covid clusters across the country have been traced to young people holding parties in their homes. “We need to let them hang out at the parks, let them hang out in the open spaces,” Mintzer says. “Adults need to stop with some of our stereotypes about the way teens are, and our fears about them.” Those fears may be heightened during the pandemic, but efforts to roust teens from parks or control their behavior are nothing new, says Patsy Eubanks Owens, a professor of landscape architecture at the University of California-Davis and an editor of The Routledge Handbook of Designing Public Spaces for Young People, out this past June. Designers have long attempted to limit teenagers’ use of public space, particularly by avoiding features, such as alcoves and clustered seating, where they can gather. Even when exclusion is not deliberate, teens often find public spaces to be unwelcoming. In 2018, Owens published a paper based on work with youth in the Sacramento, California, area, who took her on a tour of local parks. “They told me how they liked to go out and swing,” she says of these teenagers, who made a valiant effort to squeeze into swings meant for much younger kids. “They said, ‘We just want to play.’ But when the community is thinking about a park or a playground, or when the designers are coming up with a plan, they don’t really think about these young people, other than programmed activities, like a soccer team. There really isn’t an attempt to think about how teens are going to be able to use the place.” What would a park for teenagers look like? For one thing, it would have plenty of what Owens calls “prospect refuges — where they can see what's going on, but they don’t feel like everybody else is watching them.” These are places where they may gather with friends, she says, but teens have told her that they also go there alone, “to think about their troubles, to feel better and put some order to the world.” A good example, she says, is the top of a play structure — a type of park feature that is almost universally designed and intended for children 12 and under. It’s an adaptive use that points to the need for playgrounds designed for bigger kids, and while that’s still uncommon, there are an increasing number of examples in the U.S. and abroad. Skate parks, for example, offer skateboarders an alternative to concrete steps and plazas, which are often heavily policed or designed with bumps and barriers to dissuade them. They have become a movement in recent years: The Skatepark Project, founded by Tony Hawk in 2002, has funded 637 skate parks in all 50 states and advised on more than 1,000 more. The popular “Witches Playground” in Berlin boasts a speedy zip line (“I've not worked with a group of teens who does not want a zip line,” says Mintzer). A suburb of Salt Lake City hosts what may be, at three stories tall, the world’s largest play pyramid, a jungle gym big enough for older kids. Commercial playground design companies now build athletic obstacle courses and climbing structures for teens. It’s the sort of thing that would appeal to Madeline Kauffman and her friends, who like to “use playground equipment to, like, go really fast,” she says with a laugh. But they would also settle for having more places to see one another, without having to worry about suspicious adults, or lack of funds. “We really just need open areas to socialize, places that people can just come to,” she says. That simple wish resonates with Abdullah Akl, 18, a Unicef youth ambassador for the U.S. He’s working to make his hometown of Brooklyn the first U.S. community to meet the standards of the United Nations Child Friendly Cities Initiative, which supports local efforts to build places where children are safe and secure, have access to social services and education, and have an influence on decisions that affect their lives. His efforts have included pushing the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to expand youth fare discounts, as well as advocating for young people to have input on park design and other city planning projects. “What the pandemic highlighted was how much children and youth need to spend time with each other,” Akl says. “We need to make sure people of all ages are able to benefit from services that the city provides, and that they aren’t scared to use them.”