Banco Santander SA has no interest in traditional mergers and acquisitions at the moment, Chairman Ana Botin said, even as the bank’s home country leads a new wave of banking deals in Europe. The Spanish lender is more likely to make further acquisitions in technology, such as the purchase of Wirecard assets announced Monday, Botin said in a panel discussion at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum. Santander, once an active acquirer of banks in Spain and around the world, is electing not to play a role in the latest round of consolidation in the country’s financial industry. Instead it’s concentrating on technology, with plans to merge digital lender Openbank with its consumer finance unit and combine its payments platforms to form a single unit that can compete with global digital giants. “We’re not about to participate in any, let’s say, traditional bank consolidation,” she said on Tuesday. “We don’t believe that is the right thing for us at the moment. We’re much more likely to continue buying technology platforms or add-on acquisitions.” With Spain’s economy one of the worst hit by the coronavirus and negative interest rates squeezing margins on lending, the country’s lenders are seeking to combine with domestic rivals to cut costs. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Banco Sabadell SA said on Monday they’re in talks over a potential combination, just weeks after CaixaBank SA and Bankia SA agreed to a tie-up. Unicaja SA and Liberbank SA are also in talks to form Spain’s fifth-largest lender. Spain’s Banks at Vanguard of Deal Wave Sweeping European Finance BBVA is returning to the acquisition trail after pushing into digital and focusing on its international operations in recent year. If the deal to buy Sabadell goes ahead, the combined entity would have total assets of 596 billion euros in Spain, compared with 628 billion euros for CaixaBank and Bankia. Santander has about 1.5 trillion euros of assets globally, though only about a quarter of those are held in Spain. Santander’s last major acquisition was the absorption of distressed Banco Popular Espanol SA in 2017, which it bought for 1 euro. In recent years it has focused on technology deals such as the purchase of foreign exchaage platform Ebury. On Monday, the bank said it was buying assets belonging to Wirecard AG as part of a wind-down process of the failed German payments processor.