In another ten years, the Spanish bars, clubs and strip joints featured in French photographer Francois Prost’s new photo series “Discoteca” may no longer exist. Located on the intensely developed tourist beaches of the country’s east coast, these nightspots saw their regular crowds evaporated by the coronavirus pandemic this summer and fall. But, as Prost’s images reveal, their faded splendor does not suggest a bright future after the virus recedes. Prost captured the empty nightspots during a drive from Alicante to the French border this autumn. In a normal year these venues would have been packed all summer — and still open for the season’s last gasp — filled with visitors attracted to a coast famous in Europe for its ribbon of concrete hotels and endless opportunities for cheap partying. “People in places like Benidorm are freaking out because it’s deserted.” the Paris-based photographer told CityLab by telephone. “They have all these streets with nightclubs and bars that are completely empty. There were places that would normally be busy in high season where you could just hear the sound of the birds. I thought it would be interesting to commemorate these places right now, because who knows what going to happen there in the next few years?” Prost’s work often surveys uncanny urban spaces, like the “duplitecture” of Chinese cities built to resemble European ones, or the  vibrant exteriors of roadside strip clubs. In Spain’s beach bars, his camera finds places that may seem strangely familiar even to North Americans who have never visited Europe. “The aesthetic of these places is very American” he says. “It shows the Las Vegas culture in Spain, something that’s strongly influenced by American consumer culture of the 1960s and ’70s.” Combining brightly painted concrete with oversized signs designed to be readable from a car, these places used an imported aesthetic of breezy consumption. These Spanish clubs’ promise of easily accessible shameless fun and indulgence feels poignant now that the paint is peeling and the crowds have vanished, leaving only the trappings of raw, charmless commercialism. These venues also reflect a part of the Spanish economy that has been hit particularly hard by the pandemic. Despite suffering a bad first wave of Covid-19 in the spring and early summer, Spain was able to re-open and welcome European visitors for the summer season. But tourism still plummeted: The  major resort of Benidorm, for example, recorded an overall drop in hotel bookings of over 80% compared to 2019. These are resorts that rely on a huge volume of visitors to make their relatively affordable pricing viable; for many, 2020’s visitor drought poses an existential threat. Then again, as the long-term fading present in Prost’s photos suggest, the pandemic may have just accelerated a process that had already begun, making these photos look like snapshots from another era. When these beach towns were developed — cheaply and fast — from the 1960s to the 1980s, they tapped into a fresh market for package tourism, one that gave low- and middle-income Northern Europeans enjoying post-war affluence affordable access to Mediterranean sunshine for the first time. Chosen from brochures, holidays in these concrete-and-glass resorts often meant being partly insulated from the culture of the host country, with beachfront businesses promising fried British breakfasts, Dutch beer and the same summer hits in the discos that you’d hear back home. But for many who had grown up in a world where international travel, and even the chance to get a reliable summer tan, was reserved for the elite, they still offered an alluring formula for pleasure and rest. Now the need these resorts filled is shifting. In a connected world, the ease of online booking means that people are in less need of major tour operators to act as intermediaries for them. European customers have also increasingly abandoned the traditional two-week Mediterranean beach vacation where you go to one resort and stay put — a staple of many 1970s and 1980s lifestyles. Instead, Europeans have increasingly opted (or at least did so in the pre-pandemic era) to travel more frequently for shorter periods, leading to a boom in “city breaks” — or shorter getaways — as well as a wider choice of global destinations. The collapse of Britain’s major travel agent Thomas Cook last year served as one sign of this transformation; this 2020 landscape of under-populated beach resorts on the east coast may be another. These resorts may well find a way to revive and reinvent themselves after the pandemic, and Spain also possesses many stretches of coastline where hyper-development has left fewer traces. But the photos in this collection still feel as if they are commemorating an era that has already past.