Typically, the start of a presidential administration is filled with expectation. Victorious campaign staffers arrive in Washington to claim jobs at federal agencies. Lobbyists commandeer hotel ballrooms for breakfast buffets with incoming power brokers. Magazines assign fashion photographers to do shoots of the West Wing’s newest inhabitants. The mood won’t be quite so heady this time. When Joe Biden takes the oath of office on Jan. 20, 2021, he will inherit the gravest national crisis faced by any new president in the past 75 years. Though a vaccine for the coronavirus may be ready for initial use, infections are likely to remain rampant as Americans endure a winter crowded indoors. Tens of millions will remain  out of work, and many children may not have returned to the  classroom. Members of the new president’s own staff may be forced to work remotely for months, even as they begin taking action on policy priorities ranging from health care and climate change to trade and nuclear arms control. Then there’s a less obvious but perhaps even more daunting challenge: rebuilding the government after four years of Donald Trump, whose assault on the “administrative state” has demoralized federal workers and chased away thousands of career civil servants—the very specialists best suited to help the country find a way out of its current morass. America’s  calamitous pandemic response has exposed the costs of Trump’s war on expertise. “We’ve got a number of broken agencies that desperately need repair,” says Paul Light, a professor of public service at New York University and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Biden’s half-century of experience in Washington, including eight years in the executive branch, makes him uniquely qualified to lead the reconstruction project. Depoliticizing federal agencies, restoring the morale of government workers, and strengthening accountability for political officials will be among his immediate priorities—but Biden should also seize the opportunity to push through long-overdue reforms to make the government more nimble and dynamic. In the spirit of candidate Biden’s campaign slogan, here are five imperatives to “build back better.” On Nov. 9, the president-elect announced the creation of a council of advisers on coronavirus, made up of prominent physicians, infectious-disease experts and former federal public-health officials. By elevating scientific voices, Biden sent an important signal of change. Among all of the Trump administration’s failures in handling the pandemic, none has proved more corrosive than its undermining of government scientists, notably Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top infectious disease specialist. White House officials have  exerted pressure on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration to influence public-health guidance and to  speed up therapeutic-drug trials and the pace of vaccine approval. Trump has personally defied medical professionals and spread false information about testing, Covid-19 fatality rates, and alleged “cures” for the disease. The effect has been to heighten mistrust on all sides about public-health officials’ pronouncements, which in turn makes it even harder to defeat the pandemic. “These organizations, the CDC and the FDA, were once the envy of the rest of the world,” says Ali Nouri, president of the Federation of American Scientists. The “gold-standard” agencies “have now become politicized under Donald Trump. That’s done great harm that will take a long time to repair.” The erosion of the government’s scientific knowledge base extends beyond agencies focused on the pandemic. The administration has marginalized career employees at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which collects data related to climate change, and replaced the agency’s top scientist with a climate change denier. It’s forced dozens of top scientists out of government, including the head of mineral resources research at the U.S. Geological Survey and the archaeologist at the National Park Service who was responsible for protecting historic public sites from the effects of climate change. A May 2020 survey by the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative found that because of budget cuts and “neglectful and disdainful treatment of career staff” at the Environmental Protection Agency, more than one-quarter of those with relevant expertise in environmental science had left the agency since 2016. The exodus of government scientists will hamper the nation’s ability to respond to pandemics and climate-related natural disasters. Biden can start to undo the damage by coaxing departed experts to return to government—in part by taking advantage of one of Trump’s more sensible reforms, which allows agencies to rehire former federal workers at a higher pay grade. The new administration should also reinstate hundreds of advisory committees Trump eliminated, Nouri says, and combat the spread of scientific disinformation on social media, which is contributing to the worsening of the pandemic. “The next administration really needs to establish a central infrastructure to fight health-related and specifically Covid-19-related disinformation, because we know that disinformation is killing people,” he says. Restoring public confidence in scientific authorities will be crucial to the task of distributing a Covid vaccine, the success of which may determine the course of Biden’s presidency. “When the vaccine is approved, people will need to know how safe it is,” says Paul Weinstein, a professor of public management at Johns Hopkins University and former Clinton administration official. “The government should focus on transparency. People should be able to see the data. How all of that is managed is going to be critical. If you run the process well, you can go a long way to rebuilding public trust in government.” The hollowing out of scientific expertise is emblematic of a wider crisis. Across the entire federal bureaucracy, Trump’s push to discredit, marginalize, and remove career employees has been ruthlessly effective. During the first year of his administration alone, the attrition rate among members of the Senior Executive Service—the government’s most experienced employees—climbed 82%. Compared with previous presidents, Trump has installed a disproportionate number of his own appointees into leadership roles in key agencies, at the expense of qualified civil servants. At the U.S. Department of State, all assistant secretary of state positions are currently occupied by acting officials or political appointees; more than half of ambassadorships are held by political appointees, rather than career diplomats, nearly double the average rate of previous administrations. In addition to hurting staff morale, Trump’s reliance on loyalists has caused institutional instability. According to a Brookings Institution study, the Trump administration has seen a 91% turnover in the most influential executive branch jobs, more than any of its five most recent predecessors. The leadership chaos and sidelining of experienced staff have accelerated government breakdowns under Trump, from the shambolic  response to Hurricane Maria in 2017 to immigration policies that have left more than 500 children separated from their parents for close to three years, and now Covid. At the start of the pandemic, more than half of the 70 highest-ranking positions involved in the response were either unfilled or occupied by acting officials. Brookings’s Light says high-profile federal debacles have become more common over the past 30 years in part because of the increase in transient, underqualified political appointees filling important policymaking roles. The U.S. now has at least 4,000 executive branch jobs reserved for political appointees—double the number in the 1980s and far more than in any other advanced democracy. Biden should consciously reverse that trend, Light says. “There’s always pent-up demand for appointments, and this administration will be no different. It’s a perfectly reasonable instinct to put your people in charge. But you’ve got to avoid the temptation to match Trump pound for pound in terms of political appointees.” Max Stier, head of the nonpartisan Partnership for Public Service, points to Fauci as the embodiment of the kind of public servant whom Biden should entrust with greater decision-making responsibilities. “If you really want to reform the government, you need to have good ideas, but you also need to execute them effectively,” Stier says. “The career workforce is not the enemy—in fact, it’s the starting point.” Among the most fateful early decisions confronting the new president will be whether to investigate his predecessor or hold him accountable by some other means, such as a Sept. 11-style truth commission. Regardless of how Biden chooses to handle  allegations against Trump, he should take steps to strengthen rules around financial disclosure and transparency and reinforce norms against using the levers of government for personal gain. “There’s so much distrust of everything,” says Weinstein, the former Clinton official. “It’s going to be important for Biden to say, ‘There are a set of rules. We’re going to follow those rules, and we’re going to enforce them.’ And that includes defining and reinforcing the correct role of the White House in relationship to the federal agencies.” The new administration should make clear that it will submit to rigorous oversight from Congress and watchdogs inside and outside the government. It can endorse legislation backed by congressional Democrats that would expand whistleblower protections for federal workers and protect them against retaliation if they file Freedom of Information Act requests in an effort to expose misconduct. Also critical will be reinvigorating the offices of federal inspectors general, the independent watchdogs that probe and publicize cases of official waste, fraud, and abuse. Earlier this year, Trump  fired the IGs at four different agencies without giving Congress 30 days’ notice or a written explanation, as required by law. As a first step, Biden can call on the new Congress to hold hearings on the motives for Trump’s dismissal of the IGs. He should then reinstate the watchdogs and allow them to resume their work. The 2 million-person federal government has actually grown slightly under Trump, but it’s reached senescence. Only 6% of workers are under the age of 30, whereas 44% are 50 or older. One-third of employees will be eligible for retirement in 2023, and the figure is twice as high for members of the Senior Executive Service. Meanwhile, agencies are struggling to recruit younger talent to fill their needs. Eighty-three percent of federal departments report staffing shortages, and 63% say their employees lack critical skills, according to the Partnership for Public Service. This crisis, brewing for years, won’t be solved simply by changing the occupant in the Oval Office. Experts such as Stier point to the government’s flawed hiring process, which relies on a cumbersome, opaque job-posting system. Even if job hunters figure out how to submit their applications successfully, it takes an average of 100 days to receive a government job offer, more than twice as long as in the private sector. And once inside the bureaucracy, younger workers find inadequate mentorship and support, leading to high rates of attrition. Where to begin? Streamlining background checks, expanding internship programs, and recruiting on college campuses—even virtually—can help agencies attract younger talent. So would fixing the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program, which promises student-debt relief for those who pursue careers in government yet is so rife with complexities that only 1% of those eligible for loan forgiveness actually receive it. The scale of the challenges facing the new administration will require systemic organizational change. “We have a legacy government that hasn’t kept pace with the world around it, whether you’re talking about pandemics or cyberattacks or economic meltdowns,” Stier says. “We should understand that this is the world we’re in. And what we know is these problems won’t slow down; if anything, they’ll accelerate and proliferate.” Effectively dealing with emerging threats requires a different kind of workforce, one that’s more agile and digitally native and draws on private-sector expertise while reflecting the country’s diversity. “What you need is a much deeper shift in mindset,” says Anne-Marie Slaughter, chief executive officer of New America, a Washington think tank, and former head of policy planning at the State Department. “We need to go from operating like a 20th century corporation, with this vast org chart with different areas of responsibility, to something more like a consulting firm, where you have teams of experts from across the government that come together to form and re-form.” Slaughter thinks Biden should work with Congress to reform the country’s diplomatic corps, allowing foreign service officers to work in the private sector and opening up opportunities for Americans with specialized skills to do short-term assignments overseas. “We have to be able to tap the full range of talent in our society to tackle the global issues we face,” she says. “And asking people to sign up for 30-year careers is just not going to do that.” A model Biden can look to is the U.S. Digital Service, created by President Obama to rescue one of his biggest administrative failures: the botched rollout of healthcare.gov. Made up of technology industry veterans recruited for two-year tours in Washington, the agency has worked to improve the delivery of government services, saving taxpayers $3.5 billion over five years—one reason it’s received consistent backing from the Trump White House and Republicans in Congress. Investing in an expansion of USDS, and applying the lessons of its success, would be a strong signal of Biden’s commitment to innovation, with the added virtue of drawing support from both sides of the aisle. The most complex reconstruction job awaiting Biden is one he’s focused on for much of his campaign: repairing America’s global image and rallying like-minded countries to come together to solve common challenges. But the international landscape will look much different than it did four years ago, when Biden departed the vice president’s residence at the Naval Observatory for the last time. Trump’s hostility to multilateral organizations and disdain for traditional alliances have left the U.S. more isolated and less influential than it’s been in decades. To deal with intensifying geopolitical conflict, the threat of nuclear proliferation, and the emergence of a more assertive China, the U.S. will need to shore up its relationships around the world. Yet even among America’s allies, any assurances Biden provides will be treated with wariness after the volatility of the Trump years. “I don’t think the world is ready [for the U.S.] to simply say, ‘We’re back.’ We’re going to have to be back in a different mode,” Slaughter says. “It will be relatively easy to reactivate relationships. The question is, how are we going to lead? And the answer can’t just focus on how the U.S. government is going to lead, but how we lead along with a number of other countries—as well as our industries, our universities, our scientific establishment.” Biden has pledged to rejoin a range of international bodies and agreements cast aside by Trump, including the World Health Organization, the  Trans-Pacific Partnership, and the  Paris climate accord. He should also reverse Trump’s decision not to participate in  Covax, the global Covid-vaccine purchasing pool that 180 countries,  including China, have joined. Doing so is not just in the interest of global health but would benefit American consumers by giving them access to vaccines developed in other countries. This underscores a reality that’s likely to remain true for the foreseeable future: If the country is going to get itself out of this mess, it’s going to need to ask for help. Learning to accept the limits of American power is the first step toward recovering it. Ratnesar is on the editorial board of Bloomberg Opinion. Read next:  What Other Countries Can Teach the U.S. About Better Elections 