Asian shares looked set for modest gains after defensive megacap tech stocks rebounded amid speculation the economic recovery will be slow amid a virus resurgence. Futures pointed higher in Japan and Hong Kong, while Australian shares edged up. The S&P 500 rose to the highest since Sept. 2, while the Nasdaq 100 jumped more than 2%. Heavyweights Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. surged alongside some stay-at-home shares that were hit hard by this week’s selloff. Treasury futures were little changed, with the cash market closed for a U.S. holiday. The dollar advanced. The Russell 2000 Index of smaller stocks halted a two-day rally which was driven by expectations that a return to normal would be on the horizon after positive vaccine developments. Banks slumped. With fears of further economic pain growing amid the threat of tougher measures to contain the virus, traders piled back into companies with solid balance sheets and a suite of products that benefit from social distancing. New York City ordered bars and restaurants with liquor licenses to close at 10 p.m. as officials struggle to prevent a second wave. On the vaccine front, Moderna Inc. said its trial has reached a key target for analyzing the shot’s effectiveness. Progress with vaccines “doesn’t mean we’re out of the woods,” Andy Kapyrin, partner at Regentatlantic Capital LLC, said on Bloomberg TV. “We still need to actually manufacture that vaccine and deliver it successfully to a large population which will take us well into 2022.” Elsewhere, oil edged up. Investors in China will be keeping a close eye on technology shares after $290 billion was wiped out amid plans for tougher regulations. New York will order bars and restaurants with state liquor licenses closed at 10 p.m. along with gyms, and limit indoor gatherings to 10 people, Governor Andrew Cuomo said. Source: Bloomberg These are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Claire Ballentine, and Rita Nazareth