The metropolis of Tokyo is raising its virus alert to its highest level, following reports of record high new daily cases, Governor Yuriko Koike told a meeting of virus experts. She is urging people take measures to prevent the spread of the illness but didn’t ask business to curtail activities. New coronavirus cases in Tokyo reached 534 on Thursday, bringing the cumulative total to 36,256. Japan’s daily Covid-19 cases rose to a record of more than 2,000 on Wednesday. U.S. deaths from the coronavirus surpassed 250,000, marking a grim milestone as the nation struggles to contain a new surge in cases. South Australia began one of the world’s toughest lockdowns, with even outdoor exercise and dog-walking banned as the state tries to contain a cluster of Covid-19 infections. New York City said it will shut schools after infections crossed a critical threshold. Pfizer Inc. said a final analysis of clinical-trial data showed its vaccine was 95% effective, paving the way for the company to apply for the first U.S. regulatory authorization for a coronavirus shot within days. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The University of Oxford confirmed that the Covid-19 vaccine it’s developing with AstraZeneca Plc produced strong immune responses in older adults in an early study, with pivotal findings from the final phase of trials expected in the coming weeks. The results, published Thursday in The Lancet medical journal, shed more light on preliminary data released in recent months showing the experimental shot generated an immune response in older people, who are at highest risk of severe illness. Researchers are still eagerly awaiting late-stage trial results that will show whether the Astra-Oxford vaccine can meet the high bar set by front-runners Pfizer and Moderna Inc. Japan’s capital raised its Covid-19 alert to the highest of four levels, as daily infections topped 500 for the first time. Governor Koike urged people to wear masks but stopped short of asking businesses to close their shops early. Despite the higher alert level, harsh lockdown measures aren’t expected. The government lacks the legal means for such actions and has shown it can keep the virus under control without them. In addition, the capital and its neighboring prefectures account for about a third of the nation’s gross domestic product, so any limitations on businesses would have an outsize effect on the economy. Tokyo had lowered the alert from its highest level in September, prompting the city to end voluntary restrictions on operating hours for bars and restaurants. Lonza Group AG made its first commercial batch of the main ingredient in Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the U.S. last week and plans to start European production by the end of the month, Chairman Albert Baehny said. Lonza’s effort is key to ensuring a smooth rollout of Moderna’s vaccine, should the shot prove to be safe as well as effective. In contrast to pharma giant Pfizer, its closest U.S. rival in the race for a Covid shot, the biotech has no other marketed products and has never had to build out distribution channels for a medicine. “We have access to the raw materials; we have access to the people,” Baehny said in an interview. The main challenge is “to optimize as much as possible.” South Korea may review raising the social distancing steps further to level 2 if the average daily number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases exceeds 200 for a week in the greater Seoul area, Edaily says, citing Sohn Young-rae, a health ministry spokesman. South Korea earlier this week raised the social distancing in greater Seoul to 1.5 level, taking effect from Thursday. Level 1.5 measures allow 30% of the fans into sports stadiums; some events with more than 100 people are restricted. Under Level 2, schools stay open with limits on how many students can attend in-person classes. Restaurants and shops can remain open with strict virus control protocols, incluing keeping customer entry logs. The gain in number of newly confirmed cases exceeded 300 for a second day, with South Korea reporting 343 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours versus 313 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. In the state for the six days, only one person from a household will be allowed to leave home each day, and only for essential reasons, authorities said. Schools, universities, cafes and restaurants are closed, weddings and funerals are banned and mask-wearing is mandatory. “We want to go hard, go early, but get out of it as quickly as we can,” State Premier Steven Marshall said of the measures. Twenty-three people in the state capital Adelaide have been infected after a cleaner at a hotel used to quarantine people arriving from overseas was exposed to the virus, and health authorities say the “circuit breaker” measures are necessary to avoid a wider outbreak. States reported over 29,000 new infections last week in places such as nursing homes and assisted-living facilities, the steepest uptick since at least May, according to Covid Tracking Project data. State leaders, public-health experts and owners are sounding the loudest alarms over the spike in nursing homes and long-term care, where cases were falling until September. Visits from families traveling for the holidays also threaten to exacerbate the outbreak. Governor Yuriko Koike, speaking in a TV program Wednesday, said Tokyo will enhance virus measures with daily cases hitting 1,000 in mind. She said it’s possible the number of positive cases will rise, according to Japanese broadcaster FNN. Regarding store closures, Koike says the government needs to thoroughly assess its present effect even if it was effective at the time of the request. U.S. deaths from the coronavirus surpassed 250,000, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The tally is the highest in the world and comes as the country is struggling with a new surge in cases from coast to coast. New York state has the most U.S. deaths, at more than 34,000, according to Johns Hopkins. Texas is second, followed by California and Florida. People load bodies into a refrigerated temporary morgue trailer at the El Paso County Medical Examiner’s office on Monday. Photographer: Mario Tama/Getty Images Freezers required to store Covid-19 vaccines are in place at health systems that are preparing to administer the initial doses once the shots receive a green light from regulators, U.S. health officials said Wednesday. The federal government will have 40 million doses ready to distribute by the end of December should vaccines developed by Pfizer and its partner BioNTech SE, and Moderna Inc. receive emergency-use authorizations, said Moncef Slaoui, chief scientific adviser of Operation Warp Speed, the effort to expedite the development and distribution of coronavirus vaccines. New York’s recovery from the coronavirus outbreak suffered twin blows with the announcement of citywide school closings and the warning of massive cuts to public-transit service. Parents of hundreds of thousands of kids must find alternative child-care arrangements or adjust their work schedules by Thursday, after Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city had reached a 3% positivity rate that triggered a temporary halt to in-class instruction. Workers also face the prospect of longer commutes, after New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority said it will have to slash subways and buses by 40% and chop commuter rail service by half if aid doesn’t come from Washington. France reported 28,383 new confirmed coronavirus cases on Wednesday, with the weekly pace of infections again heading lower after an increase the previous day. Positive tests accounted for 16.2% of all testing, down more than 3 points from a week ago. Hospitalizations and the number of severely ill patients in intensive-care units both fell for a second day, with ICU occupation falling the most since May 20. Deaths linked to the virus, which trail other indicators, increased by 425 to 46,698. Italy registered 753 deaths related to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the biggest daily increase in over seven months. New daily virus cases rose to 34,282 from 32,191 on Tuesday. Covid-19 patients at the Casalpalocco Clinical Institute in Rome. Italy deaths reached a seven-month high when it registered 753 deaths on Wednesday Photographer: Filippo Monteforte/AFP/Getty Images In the region around Milan, infections are slowing. New cases in Lombardy fell by about 10% versus Tuesday to 7,633, which is also about 7% lower than 7-days ago. Governor Attilio Fontana has said some restriction could be eased at the end of the month if the trend continues in coming weeks. Turkey reported 116 new deaths from coronavirus on Wednesday, its highest daily count since April. The latest data brought Turkey’s total death toll to 11,820, according to the Health Ministry. Turkey stopped reporting all coronavirus cases in July, and has since only reported “patients” who both test positive and display symptoms. On Wednesday there were 4,215 new patients. On Tuesday, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced a weekend curfew between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz defended the government’s latest measures to tackle the coronavirus pandemic, saying they are accepted by most of the population of Europe’s largest economy. Olaf Scholz Photographer: Krisztian Bocsi/Bloomberg Scholz spoke to Bloomberg Television after thousands of people demonstrated in Berlin against legislation approved by parliament Wednesday that expands government powers to tackle the pandemic. “Containing the virus is critical,” Scholz said, citing polls that he said show some 80% of citizens back Chancellor Angela Merkel’s ruling coalition in their efforts to stem the spread of the disease. More than 900 Mayo Clinic staff have contracted Covid-19 in the past two weeks, according to a report Tuesday in the TwinCities Pioneer Press. Ninety-three percent of staff who contracted the virus did so in the community and the majority of those who contracted the virus at work did so while eating in a break room with a mask off, the newspaper reported, citing a briefing with a dean of clinical practice in Rochester, Minnesota. — With assistance by Reed Stevenson