New York City plans to test out a program where dispatchers send out emergency medical services and mental health crisis workers, instead of police officers, to mental health-related calls, making it the latest city to attempt a pivot away from policing as a cure-all. The city’s mental health teams will work in two high-need communities starting in February. They will include health professionals and crisis workers from the fire department’s emergency medical services division. They will respond in place of the traditional police and paramedic teams, except in cases that involve a weapon or imminent danger, according to a statement from Mayor Bill de Blasio’s office this week. “For the first time in our city’s history, health responders will be the default responders for a person in crisis, making sure those struggling with mental illness receive the help they need,” de Blasio said in the statement announcing the program. NYC isn’t alone. Other cities like Los Angeles, Denver and San Francisco are also set to kick off pilot programs to utilize health professionals for mental health-related calls. The projects mark another way the debate around policing is playing out in communities across the U.S. after a wave of protests and activism in the wake of the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis in May. It also follows the September release of video showing the death of Daniel Prude in police custody in Rochester, New York, and the October police shooting of Walter Wallace Jr. in Philadelphia. Both men were having mental health crises that police were called in to handle. The cost of transporting people with severe mental illness is estimated at $918 million a year, according to a survey of law enforcement agencies cited in an August report by the National Association of State Mental Health Program Directors. Individuals with behavioral health emergencies make up one quarter of police shootings and more than 2 million jail bookings per year, the report said. Mental health calls are an area where encounters with law enforcement can further escalate, as in the police killings of Prude and Wallace. Officers, even those who have been trained on crisis intervention, are often not well equipped to deal with mental health emergencies, said John Snook, executive director of the Treatment Advocacy Center. People with untreated mental illness are 16 times more likely to be killed by police, according to the center. “The mental health system is largely broken across the country,” Snook said. “We’ve tried to paper over it by funding law enforcement.” The NYC, Los Angeles, Denver and San Francisco test programs are all modeled after Eugene, Oregon’s  Crisis Assistance Helping Out in The Streets (CAHOOTS) program, which has been in place since 1989. In 2019, it responded to 24,000 calls for service, less than 1% of which required an additional police response. Handling one-fifth of the city’s 911 dispatch calls means that it saves $8.5 million a year in public safety spending and $14 million in emergency medical costs by handling and diverting mental health incidents, according to the program. Read More: West Coast Cities Are Exploring Alternative Policing Models But cities that are just starting out have to make sure their approach is holistic, Snook said. Simply launching a pilot program, or increasing training on its own, won’t fix the system. Responders of any kind need options beyond sending individuals in crisis to jail or the hospital, said B.J. Wagner, a senior fellow at the Meadows Mental Health Policy Institute in Texas. Most communities have at least some of the resources in place already, said Wagner, who is helping guide Dallas with a pilot project of its own. There just needs to be an understanding of what is available and what’s right for a specific person in crisis. This ensures there is a whole continuum of care and options for people who need help, including things like food banks, substance abuse counseling, domestic violence shelters and so on. The Dallas pilot program, which is known as the Rapid Integrated Group Healthcare Team or RIGHT Care, launched in one police patrol district back in 2018. It differs from the New York City model because it includes a medical worker, mental health worker and a police officer on calls. Since implementation in Dallas, the patrol district has seen fewer psychiatric emergency room visits, arrests and citations than neighboring areas that were not part of the trial. As a result, Dallas is planning to expand the program a citywide, Wagner said. “Frankly, when police departments are answering these calls they have two choices, jail or hospital,” Wagner said. “There’s no in between.”