Several online trading platforms around the world broke down or were unavailable on Monday as individual investors tried to take advantage of heavy trading after the announcement of  positive data from a Covid-19 vaccine candidate. More than  85% of S&P 500 companies climbed and shares in industries beleaguered by the pandemic — ranging from travel to leisure — shot up on optimism about a vaccine that prevented more than 90% of symptomatic infections in a trial of tens of thousands of volunteers. The glitches were the latest instance this year of online platforms freezing up just as non-professional traders turned to them during times of market turmoil. In early March, Robinhood Markets’s platform was  offline for an entire trading day during the tumultuous time early in coronavirus outbreak. Then in September,  Robinhood and Charles Schwab Corp. crashed in the wake of Apple Inc. and Tesla Inc. stock splits. Jack Stevens, 30, in London hoped to move some money before the U.S. markets opened on Monday. But when he tried logging into his account at AJ Bell Plc, a Manchester-based online stock platform, he was greeted with an unexpected obstacle: a logo that kept spinning but wouldn’t let him access the roughly 18,000 pounds ($23,600) he was hoping to allocate at least in part toward U.S. investments. An AJ Bell spokesman said the company was dealing with “intermittent service issues with the platform this afternoon which we have been working hard to fix as soon as possible. We apologize for any inconvenience this has caused.” As the markets were surging, U.S. investors reported glitches at Vanguard Group, TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., Fidelity Investments, Robinhood and Merrill Lynch. In the U.K., similar issues surfaced at AJ Bell, Hargreaves Lansdown Plc and the IG Group Holdings Plc. Problems ranged from delays in charts and pricing to downed sites and inaccessible accounts. “We are experiencing our busiest-ever day for web and app traffic, and as a consequence some intermittent service issues,” Hargreaves Lansdown spokesman Danny Cox said in an emailed statement. Those service issues caused a headache for Andy Dickson, who lives near Glasgow and works in marketing at a financial-services firm. He has been dealing throughout the day with technical hiccups on his Hargreaves Lansdown account. Dickson did manage to log into his account, but because of delays on the platform, found out he ended up trading several thousand pounds’ worth of the same stock three times. “It doesn’t provide me with the greatest amount of confidence,” he said. — With assistance by Misyrlena Egkolfopoulou