OPEC+ talks were delayed for two days to give ministers more time to reach a deal, after a long and tense meeting on oil production broke down without agreement. The delay, set out in a letter seen by Bloomberg, was the most dramatic sign yet of the deep division inside the cartel after hours of talks on Monday yielded no result. OPEC+ ministers will now meet on Thursday rather than Tuesday to allow time for “further consultations.” Talks will continue by phone. Ministers are discussing whether to increase production in January as planned or maintain the cuts that have helped create a rally in oil prices. While some see the market as still too fragile to accept more barrels, others are keen to ramp up production and make the most of rising prices. Oil fell on news of the delay. There had appeared to be some consensus building between ministers around an extension of three months on Monday. But the meeting became unusually fraught and Saudi Arabia’s energy minister, in what appeared to be a gesture of frustration, told others he may resign as co-chair of a key OPEC+ panel. Failure to reach a deal would undermine oil prices, which are recovering amid hopes that virus vaccines will restore activity. Also at stake is the longer-term credibility of the cartel whose actions have underpinned the market since the spectacular oil crash earlier this year. The run-up to the meeting has seen new cracks emerging in the relationship between the United Arab Emirates -- a core part of the cartel -- and other members. “The market is underestimating a little bit how serious this is. This is one of Saudi Arabia’s biggest allies,” said Amrita Sen, co-founder of consultant Energy Aspects Ltd. She’s not predicting a messy outcome this week, though tensions will persist into next year. “Despite the disputes they will get through this one.” The UAE is trying to attach conditions to any rollover that are almost impossible to meet, effectively blocking an agreement, according to delegates. In another sign of tension, the UAE was offered the co-chair role that the Saudis said they may give up, but rejected it, according to a person familiar with the situation. It was earlier this year that friction first emerged between the UAE and the Saudis, traditionally stalwart partners. Abu Dhabi has grown impatient to use its new production capacity, while also planning to launch a regional oil benchmark contract -- which would be helped by a large liquid market. In the summer, the UAE cast aside its usual obedience to cartel discipline and started pumping more crude than its quota allowed. The Saudis were furious, and summoned Energy Minister Suhail Al-Mazrouei to Riyadh for a public dressing down. The UAE soon fell into line, but the resentment remained. The UAE thinks its quota is unfair, and is keen to make the most of massive investments in production capacity. Those ambitions are held back by the rules of the cartel. Suhail al-Mazrouei Source: AFP via Getty Images The Emiratis’ frustration flared two weeks ago, when officials signaled privately that they were dissatisfied with the quota assigned to them by OPEC, and were even contemplating leaving the organization in the long term. This week’s meeting -- and the decisions on output -- are a follow-up to the vast production cuts made during the depths of the pandemic. The alliance had planned to ease some of those curbs at the start of 2021, in anticipation of a global economic recovery. Over the past few weeks, leading figures in the alliance such as Saudi Prince Abdulaziz and Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak have signaled support for delaying the easing as the market is still fragile. While a breakthrough in vaccines to tackle the coronavirus propelled oil prices to an eight-month high, a resurgence in infections has triggered a new wave of lockdowns and inflicted a fresh blow to fuel consumption. The cartel and the wider industry have downgraded their outlooks for 2021, with a picture that’s sharply polarized between recovery in Asia and stagnation in Europe. OPEC is no stranger to difficult meetings. The gathering in April that resulted in the current output agreement, went on for several days, while Mexico haggled over its contribution. But that’s nothing compared to some of the meetings that OPEC held back in the 1980s, when the group was again struggling to cut output. One meeting in Geneva ran for 17 days in 1986, and was quickly followed by a 10-day marathon. — With assistance by Julian Lee