A top European Union official said relaxing restrictions too swiftly could unleash a fresh pandemic wave onto already strained hospitals. Officials from New York to California warned of a worsening virus surge. Many health-care systems are still overwhelmed, the president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, told lawmakers. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is proposing tighter restrictions to regional leaders and France’s Emmanuel Macron said restaurants must remain shut until late January, even as he detailed how France will end its lockdown. U.S. President-elect Joe Biden said his team will not be “so far behind the curve” in fighting Covid-19 now that the Trump administration is cooperating. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Iran reported a new record for daily infections for a second day in a row, pushing the number of total known cases to 894,385. The death toll reached 46,207 with 469 more deaths in the last 24 hours, down from a day earlier. The Philippines set a price cap for swab tests amid complaints of price disparity, Health Secretary Francisco Duque said. The price for real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction or RT-PCR test is capped at 5,000 pesos ($104) in private hospitals and 3,800 pesos in government laboratories, Duque said in a briefing. Some testing centers have charged as much as 13,000 pesos for the tests. As many as 16 of the new local cases are of unknown origin, according to an official from the department of health. Most others are linked to an existing dance studio and club cluster, the offical said. The European Commission’s von der Leyen warned against relaxing virus restrictions too much and too soon as the risk of a third pandemic wave looms. Speaking to lawmakers in Brussels, the head of the EU’s executive arm said that many healthcare systems are still overwhelmed. She said the first inoculations with a vaccine will be carried out before the end of the year. The daily death toll in Russia exceeded 500 for the first time as surging infections across the country put increasing strain on hospitals and medical staff complained about a lack of medicines and protective gear. Federal authorities have refrained from a lockdown, instead introducing limited restrictions in hard-hit regions. President Vladimir Putin told officials last week that the situation wasn’t easy and described the rising mortality rate as the “most alarming” trend. The Czech Republic will “very probably” ease more restrictions from Monday, Health Minister Jan Blatny said in an interview with the Mlada Fronta Dnes newspaper. The cabinet will meet Sunday to decide on relaxing the curbs. If approved, the move will allow reopening of shops, restaurants and services, with some restrictions such as limits on the number of customers. Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike urged residents to avoid non-essential outings and asked bars and restaurants to close early as the city combats a virus surge, according to local media reports. The measures represent some of the strictest steps the city has taken to combat the pandemic since it was placed under a state of emergency last spring. They come as the city was reported to have 401 new coronavirus infections in a single day. Tokyo set to call for early closures as severe Covid-19 cases rise Source: Tokyo Metropolitan Government Note: Tokyo defines a "severe case" as those requiring a ventilator or ECMO machine. This differs from the definition used by the national government。 Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha will sign an agreement with AstraZeneca Plc on Friday to procure its vaccine, according to a government statement. Thailand may receive the doses by mid-2021. Local drugmaker Siam Bioscience will produce the vaccines at its facilities, and Thailand will receive technology transfer -- an economic opportunity for the country, government spokeswoman Traisuree Taisaranakul said in the statement. A leading Chinese vaccine developer has applied for general use of its Covid-19 vaccine, seeking to get a jump on Western rivals as the race for a working shot against the pandemic enters the final stretch. China National Biotec Group Co. has submitted an application to Chinese regulators, reported state media Xinhua Finance, citing its parent company Sinopharm. Unlike western frontrunners, CNBG has yet to release any public data on the efficacy of its shot in advanced clinical trials, making it difficult to compare its vaccines to others. South Australia is overhauling its system of hotel quarantine after discovering that two returned overseas travelers and a security guard mysteriously contracted Covid-19 at an isolation facility. Authorities have scoured CCTV images and have so far failed to identify how the couple who’d returned from Nepal and the guard became infected at the so-called medi-hotel in Adelaide. A hotel cleaner also caught the virus and the state is now trying to contain a cluster of 29 cases in the state capital. Alberta Premier Jason Kenney declared a public health emergency as case rates surged to the second highest in Canada. Alberta will ban indoor social gatherings and limit outdoor gatherings to 10 people. Students in grades 7-12 will stop in-person learning on Nov. 30 and return to school in January. The U.K. government lost a “crucial month” in its fight against coronavirus because it was slow to respond to a shortage of ventilators, the House of Commons spending watchdog found. Ministers only started efforts to buy more ventilators on March 3, just over a month after the WHO declared the pandemic a public health emergency, the Public Accounts Committee said. A separate report by the National Audit Office, the body that scrutinizes public spending, found that the U.K. was too slow to source personal protective equipment for frontline health workers. The foreign ministers of China and Japan agreed at a meeting in Tokyo to lift some virus-related travel restrictions by the end of the month. Foreign Minister Wang Yi is the first senior Chinese official to visit Japan since Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga took office in September. At the meeting, Wang and his Japanese counterpart, Toshimitsu Motegi, agreed to restart some travel for businesspeople and residents before the end of November. President-elect Joe Biden said his transition team will not be “so far behind the curve” now that the Trump administration has begun cooperating on the fight against the coronavirus. “We’re already working out meeting with the Covid team in the White House,” Biden said in an interview on NBC Nightly News to air Tuesday. “And how to not only distribute, but get from a vaccine being distributed, to a person being able to get vaccinated,” he said. “So I think we’re going to not be so far behind the curve, as we thought we might be in the past.” — With assistance by Marthe Fourcade, Felix Tam, Nikos Chrysoloras, Andra Timu, Natalie Lung, Cecilia Yap, and Arsalan Shahla