Democratic nominee Joe Biden’s slow-motion rise in key states’ vote tallies is bringing him closer to victory as President Donald Trump rails against the results and lodges unsupported charges of voter fraud. Other developments: Biden’s mounting lead in Pennsylvania -- and talk that the state may well give him the presidential election -- haven’t ended the laborious task of counting the state’s remaining ballots. Heavily Democratic Philadelphia expects to post results for about 2,000 to 3,000 additional mail-in and absentee ballots later in the afternoon and continue counting about 40,000 outstanding ballots that could take several days to tally, Commissioner Lisa Deeley said at a news conference Friday at the Pennsylvania Convention Center. Those include mail-in and absentee ballots that take additional time to review; provisional ballots, which are cast by voters whose eligibility has been questioned and are held for as long as seven days after the election while voter eligibility is determined; and military and overseas ballots, she said. Commissioner Al Schmidt estimated that Philadelphia has about 500 ballots so far that were mailed before the election and arrived after the polls closed. Those are being segregated pending possible litigation at the U.S. Supreme Court about whether they should be counted. Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney told reporters that Trump needs to “put his big boy pants on” and acknowledge that “he lost.” Kenney said there’s “not one iota of evidence” of fraud. -- Mark Niquette New York Governor Andrew Cuomo called Trump’s response to the election divisive and damaging. “The man divides whenever there’s an opportunity to divide,” Cuomo, a Democrat, told reporters Friday. “He sees a crack in the rock, he puts a wedge in it and he starts to hammer and hammer. The president has hurt this nation over four years, and he’s doing some of his greatest damage right now. Whatever happened to honor?” Noting that large numbers of absentee and mail-in ballots have slowed vote counts across the country, Cuomo said, “If these results had come out in an instantaneous form, they would have called it a blowout” for Biden. Cuomo said Trump will “torture” the country by filing “absurd” litigation over the election. “He’s saying to his people we got robbed, don’t trust democracy, don’t trust the system.” -- Keshia Clukey The latest results from Nevada show Biden leading by 20,542 votes, or 1.63 percentage points, nearly three-quarters of a point up from his margin from Thursday. The fresh numbers include about 31,000 ballots counted in Clark County. Its registrar of voters, Joe Gloria, had indicated that the results of 51,000 ballots would be released today. Clark is home to Las Vegas and had 175,000 uncounted votes, or 90% of the statewide total remaining, as of Thursday. The majority of the remaining votes, which are updating in real time, are expected to favor Biden. In 2016, Democrat Hillary Clinton won Clark by 10.7 percentage points and the state by 2.4 percentage points. The Trump campaign has filed a federal lawsuit to challenge the tally, alleging without evidence that “irregularities have plagued the election in Clark County” and that more than 3,000 ineligible voters had cast ballots. -- Laura Bliss and Sarah Holder A couple hundred Trump supporters gathered outside the TCF Center in Detroit on Friday, a day after the president pointed to the site of absentee-ballot counting in the city to challenge the returns favoring Biden. The demonstrators demanded a recount in Michigan, where Biden has a lead of more than 146,000 votes, according to unofficial results from the secretary of state. The final count has to be certified by canvassing boards in each county. Under state law, the Trump campaign would have 48 hours after the certification of the results by the state board of canvassers to ask for a recount, as it has said it would in Wisconsin. But the chances of reversing the outcome are slim, said Ken Kollman, director of the Center for Political Studies at the University of Michigan. “Recounts might overturn the election when there’s a few hundred votes difference -- you’re not going to turn over an election where the difference is thousands or tens of thousands,” he said. As conservative activists put out calls across social media to protest the vote count in battleground states, Trump singled out Detroit on Thursday night. Without evidence, he alleged fraud in the ballot-counting room because the windows were covered and Republican poll challengers’ complaints allegedly were not heeded. -- Gabrielle Coppola and Jeff Green Georgia elections officials are expecting to need a recount in the presidential race, with Biden and Trump separated by about 1,500 votes out of 4.9 million cast as of 11:25 a.m. New York time. “With a margin that small, there will be a recount in Georgia,” Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger told reporters Friday morning. State law permits a candidate to request a recount when the margin is within one-half of a percentage point. As of 11:25, Biden had 49.40% of the vote to Trump’s 49.37%, according to the Georgia Secretary of State’s office. Brad Raffensperger, the Secretary of State of Georgia, says there will be a ballot recount in the state. The presidential race may not be certified until the end of November. ( Source: Bloomberg) Each county will have to certify its results, followed by an audit, before any recount. The process could take a while. Gabriel Sterling, the state’s voting systems implementation manager, said Georgia should know who won its presidential race by the end of November. Complicating matters is an extraordinarily large number of absentee mail-in ballots and some potential outstanding ballots mailed in by the military and overseas residents. Ordinarily, the state sees only about 5% ballots sent by mail, but this election the number was almost one-third, Sterling said. As of 10:30 a.m., counties still had yet to count 4,169 mail-in ballots, with the largest number, about 3,500, in Gwinnett County in the Atlanta area. Also, an unknown number of ballots cast by military members and Americans abroad were uncounted. People requested just under 8,900 such ballots, but it was unclear how many people had sent them in. The state is required to count them as long as they were postmarked by Tuesday and arrive by the end of Friday. -- Mike Sasso Biden’s lead in Arizona continued to narrow Friday to less than 44,000 votes after Maricopa County, the home of Phoenix, released more data. But Trump won only 53% of the newly counted votes, short of the 57% mark he needs, making Biden’s victory there seem slightly more secure. Biden’s margin in Arizona’s most populous county dropped from about 64,000 to 60,000 with an additional roughly 65,000 ballots reported. Maricopa County has nearly 163,000 ballots left to count, according to its Elections Department. The county will release more results at 9 p.m. EST. Roughly 100,000 ballots remain uncounted throughout other parts of the state, estimates from an Arizona Secretary of State dashboard show. The Associated Press has already called the race for Biden, but Trump’s campaign and protesters have contested that call. -- Brenna Goth and Gregory Korte The Associated Press says it hasn’t called a result in Pennsylvania, where Biden has a small but growing lead, because there are more than 100,000 ballots yet to be counted and a recount is likely. Biden’s lead was 6,826 votes as of 10:45 a.m. New York time. Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes would assure Biden the presidency, assuming current counts in other states hold up. Pennsylvania still has 163,501 mail-in ballots left to count, with an unknown number still coming in the mail. State rules permit the counting of ballots postmarked by Election Day so long as they’re received by the end of Friday. There are also about 28,000 potentially duplicate ballots in and around Pittsburgh that need to be accounted for because of a ballot misprint, and thousands of overseas absentee ballots that could come in. “There’s a possibility the race won’t be decided for days,” the AP said in a story explaining its stance on projecting a winner in the state. -- Gregory Korte Democrat Joe Biden has taken the lead in Pennsylvania over President Donald Trump, putting him on the cusp of victory in the presidential race. Pennsylvania has 20 electoral votes, meaning if Biden wins the state, he will have more than 270, which is enough to claim the White House. Biden also narrowly overtook Trump in Georgia. Kevin Cirilli reports on “Bloomberg the Open.” ( Source: Bloomberg) Trump’s top economic adviser said Friday he expects a “ peaceful transfer of power” if Biden wins the presidency. “We abide by the rule of law and so will this president,” Larry Kudlow, director of the National Economic Council, told CNBC. He was responding to a question about whether he could assure markets of a smooth transition if Biden – who would win if current vote margins hold – becomes the president-elect. – Justin Sink The Trump campaign says it still believes it can prevail in Georgia, Pennsylvania, Nevada and Arizona. “This election is not over,” Matt Morgan, the Trump campaign’s general counsel, said in a statement. “The false projection of Joe Biden as the winner is based on results in four states that are far from final.” -- Misyrlena Egkolfopoulou Decision Desk HQ, a political forecasting firm, projects that Biden has won the presidency after calling Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes for the former vice president. No television network has called the race yet, nor has the Associated Press. Bloomberg News does not use Decision Desk HQ’s calls in determining which candidates win states, but it is one of the seven news sources that Twitter has said it will use to determine if the race is called. There are 163,500 mail-in ballots yet to be counted in Pennsylvania, according to data from its Department of State website. Many are concentrated in Democratic-leaning areas, according to the data. -- Laura Davison Decision Desk HQ projects that @JoeBiden has won Pennsylvania and its 20 electoral college votes for a total of 273.Joe Biden has been elected the 46th President of the United States of America.Race called at 11-06 08:50 AM ESTAll Results: https://t.co/BgcQsEyt3j Biden edged ahead of Trump in Pennsylvania, bolstering his prospects to win the presidency with the move in a key battleground state. If he wins the state and its 20 electoral votes, Biden would become the next U.S. president, provided that other race calls stand. Biden moved in front of Trump in Pennsylvania by fewer than 6,000 votes with the release of the latest batch of results from the state. The former vice president had trailed in the state since Election Night, but Trump’s initial lead of as much as 700,000 votes progressively shrank as election officials tallied mail-in ballots that heavily favored the Democratic candidate. The result is still too close to call the state, with additional legal challenges likely and more ballots yet to be counted. -- Kathleen Hunter Senator Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, said there was no evidence to substantiate Trump’s claims of widespread fraud as his state continues to count ballots three days after the election. “I saw the president’s speech last night and it was very hard to watch,” Toomey said on NBC’s “Today” show. “The president’s allegations of large-scale fraud and theft of the election are just not substantiated. I’m not aware of any significant wrongdoing here.” Speaking at the White House Thursday night, Trump alleged the election is being stolen from him, despite no evidence of widespread voting irregularities. Pat Toomey Photographer: Al Drago/Bloomberg Trump’s steadily shrinking lead over Biden in Pennsylvania was down to 18,042 votes, with more than 163,000 mail-in ballots left to be counted, according to the Associated Press. A win in Pennsylvania would give Biden the electoral votes he needs to clinch the presidency, assuming unofficial results in other states hold up. Toomey said the president “still has a very narrow path by which he can win” in Pennsylvania. -- Josh Wingrove Trump’s vote margin in Pennsylvania has fallen to about 18,000, and largely Democratic Philadelphia has about 50,000 mail-in and absentee ballot votes yet to report, Commissioner Al Schmidt said on CNN. Schmidt said he expects the city will post updated results – not all 50,000 at once -- early this morning as workers have been continuously processing and counting ballots except for a brief delay on Thursday because of litigation from the Trump campaign complaining that observers were being kept too far away from the process. Statewide, there are about 163,500 mail-in and absentee ballots yet to be counted or about 6.2% of all such ballots, according to the Department of State. That includes about 35,000 that Democratic Allegheny County will start counting at 9 a.m. – though 29,000 of those ballots can’t be counted until 5 p.m. because of a court order. -- Mark Niquette Biden edged ahead of Trump in Georgia, a major shift in the Republican stronghold that hasn’t backed a Democrat for president since 1992. Biden only needs a win in one more state -- Georgia. Pennsylvania, Nevada or North Carolina -- to reach the 270 electoral votes he needs to be elected president, provided that other race calls stand. Biden moved in front of Trump in Georgia by 917 votes with the release of the latest batch of results from the state. The former vice president had trailed in the state since Election Night, but Trump’s initial lead of several hundred thousand votes progressively shrank as election officials tallied mail-in ballots that heavily favored the Democratic candidate. The result is still too close to call the state, with a recount and legal challenges possible and more ballots yet to be counted, including those from military personnel stationed overseas. -- John Harney Biden inched closer to a win Thursday, as he retained narrow leads in Arizona and Nevada and cut deeply into Trump’s margins in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania’s numbers were particularly stark, with Trump’s lead dropping from about 176,000 Thursday morning to roughly 26,000 by early Friday. Trump’s campaign continued to fight in court, suffering a setback when judges in Georgia and Michigan quickly dismissed lawsuits over the handling of mail-in ballots. They had a success in a Pennsylvania court ruling that allowed observers more access but did not affect the ballot counting. The two candidates had very different tones on Thursday. In brief remarks in Wilmington, Delaware, Biden called for Americans to remain calm, saying that “the process is working” and that he had “no doubt” he would win in the end. Speaking at the White House that evening, Trump argued he would win if only “legal votes” were counted, accused pollsters of fraud and claimed without evidence that Democrats were “stealing” the election. -- Ryan Teague Beckwith More than 200 pro-Trump protesters gathered Thursday night outside the Clark County Election Department in Las Vegas, where more results are expected to be released Friday morning. Chanting “stop the steal,” and “dead people don’t vote,” the crowd waved flags and held up signs claiming a “rigged” election in Biden’s favor, an allegation that is not supported by evidence. The vote counting in Clark County, a Democratic stronghold that represents 90% of uncounted ballots in Nevada, has attracted international attention since Election Day. Biden leads Trump by less than 12,000 votes. In Philadelphia, WPVI-TV, an ABC affiliate, said the police had detained a man in suspected plot to attack the convention center, where votes are being counted. The station showed video of a man in custody. -- Laura Bliss, Sarah Holder and Kathleen Hunter — With assistance by Ryan Teague Beckwith, John Harney, Brentin Mock, Christopher Yasiejko, Amanda Albright, David Welch, Jeff Green, Gabrielle Coppola, Jennifer Kay, Michael Smith, Andrew Ballard, Brenna Goth, Margaret Newkirk, Michael Sasso, Alexander Ebert, Elise Young, Chris Dolmetsch, Michelle Fay Cortez, David Wethe, Laura Bliss, Sarah Holder, Shruti Singh, Keith Laing, Jennifer Epstein, Alyza Sebenius, William Turton, Monte Reel, Joe Schneider, and Mark Niquette