Rishi Sunak said the government expects the new measures to bring down infections enough to resume the government’s regional, tiered approach to social-distancing rules in December. Photographer: Justin Tallis/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Justin Tallis/AFP via Getty Images Boris Johnson promised Parliament a vote on restrictions after England’s partial coronavirus lockdown expires in December, as the prime minister sought to reassure members of his own Conservative Party planning to rebel against his latest crackdown. Johnson will make a statement to the House of Commons on the government’s pandemic strategy on Monday afternoon, and will warn the number of deaths could be twice as high as the first wave in the spring without urgent national action. Pubs, gyms and non-essential shops will close for four weeks from Thursday under the plan, which is subject to parliamentary approval. Johnson Will Find Out Size of Tory Rebellion in Lockdown Vote But after senior cabinet minister Michael Gove said the lockdown could be extended if the virus isn’t contained, some Tories have warned they may abstain or vote against the government when it’s debated in Parliament on Wednesday. That leaves Johnson at risk of sacrificing precious political capital -- especially if he has to rely on opposition Labour Party votes to win. The government has been working to diffuse tensions, with Johnson talking to MPs over the weekend. Early Monday, Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak told the BBC he expects the lockdown to reduce infections enough to resume the localized strategy of tackling virus hot spots, and the new regulations will lapse by law on Dec. 2. Johnson’s spokesman made clear that means MPs will get a vote on the “proposed way forward.” “Our expectation and firm hope -- on the basis of everything we know today -- is the measures we put in place, for the time that they are going to be in place for, will be sufficient to do the job that we need,” Sunak told BBC Radio. Johnson will set out his plan in Parliament after a leak on Friday night rushed him into announcing the lockdown in a televised press conference on Saturday. “Faced with these latest figures, there is no alternative but to take further action at a national level,” Johnson will say, according to his office. “I know some in the House believe we should have reached this decision earlier, but I believe it was right to try every possible option to get this virus under control at a local level, with strong local action and strong local leadership.” The prime minister will also give details of extra assistance to self-employed people during the lockdown, raising state aid to more than current plans for 40% of their usual earnings, Sunak said. The chancellor has already increased aid to the employed by extending his flagship wage support program, which had been due to end at the weekend, for the duration of the new restrictions. The extension came too late for many people laid-off by companies last week, ahead of the program’s scheduled end. Sunak defended his decision to stick with his original time-frame, saying it was only the changing health data and subsequent lockdown that forced a rethink. Bloomberg Economics said the second lockdown will mean the economy contracts in the fourth quarter and that the Bank of England will increase its asset purchase target this week by possibly more than the 100 billion pounds ($129 billion) previously forecast. A second national lockdown will be “truly devastating,” Carolyn Fairbairn, outgoing director-general of the Confederation of British Industry, said on Monday. The government must keep as much of the economy open as possible and needs a clear strategy for exiting the lockdown, she said. Still, Johnson’s plan is almost certain to pass in the House of Commons after Labour leader Keir Starmer confirmed his party will support the latest restrictions. Of bigger concern to the prime minister will be the size of any Tory rebellion. Conservative lawmakers have already shown their displeasure at the coronavirus restrictions, when 42 of them rebelled in a vote last month to confirm the government’s imposition of a 10 p.m. curfew on pubs and restaurants. “This repetitive cycle of lockdowns is immensely damaging to people’s livelihoods, is deeply depressing and is causing a huge toll in terms of people’s mental health and family relationships,” Graham Brady, who heads the influential 1922 committee of rank-and-file Conservatives MPs, told BBC Radio late Sunday. Adding to the potential danger is the latest intervention by Nigel Farage, one of the architects of Brexit. Following a pattern of entering the political scene when he senses Tory disquiet, Farage announced the re-branding of his Brexit Party as Reform U.K. He sent a message to supporters calling the government’s “woeful” response to the pandemic the “most pressing” issue facing the country. “The government has dug itself into a hole and rather than admit its mistakes, it keeps on digging,” Farage wrote. “The new national lockdown will result in more life-years lost than it hopes to save, as non-Covid patients with cancer, cardiac, lung and other illnesses have treatments delayed or canceled again. Suicides are soaring. Businesses and jobs are being destroyed.” — With assistance by David Goodman, and Kitty Donaldson