Mobile offshore drilling units stand in the Port of Cromarty Firth in Cromarty, U.K., on Tuesday, June 23, 2020. Oil pared earlier declines as Russia was said to be discussing the possibility of delaying the easing of OPEC+ output cuts by three months. Futures fell 0.8% in New York, wiping out much of an earlier plunge that saw crude fall to a five-month low. Russian oil companies will meet with the nation’s energy minister, Alexander Novak, on Monday to discuss the possibility of delaying the easing of OPEC+ cuts until the end of the first quarter, said a person familiar with the matter. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies meet at the end of the month. Futures had earlier come under pressure from the double whammy of rising Libyan supply and dwindling demand as European economies enter renewed lockdowns. That could be just the curtain-raiser for a turbulent week of trading as Americans head to the polls Tuesday in an election that could reshape U.S. policy on everything from coronavirus to Iran and fracking. See also: What to Watch in Commodities, the U.S. Election-Day Special The worsening demand outlook coupled with fresh supply has pushed U.S. crude benchmark West Texas Intermediate down around 14% from its close on Oct. 20. Trafigura Group boss Jeremy Weir said the second wave of the virus around the world could push global oil demand to as low 88 to 89 million barrels a day, down 11% or 12% from last year. That makes OPEC+’s task even trickier as it decides whether to add more supply to the market. “Positive supply developments in Libya will only raise the probability that the OPEC+ group will explicitly consider a delay to the taper of its planned voluntary output cuts,” said BNP Paribas oil strategist Harry Tchilinguirian. Despite the recent price weakness, Vitol Group, the world’s biggest independent oil trader, characterized the latest lockdown measures as just a “speed bump,” with tightening global inventories likely to cushion the downside. The bigger picture is still a world in “stock-drawing mode,” Mike Muller, Vitol’s head of Asia, said in an interview Sunday with Dubai-based consultants Gulf Intelligence. That view was backed up by figures from India over the weekend, where diesel sales grew for the first time in eight months. The country also posted bumper manufacturing data on Monday, while figures from China showed an expansion too, indicating Asian demand growth continues to outpace the rest of the world. — With assistance by James Thornhill, Elizabeth Low, and Ann Koh