Biogen Inc. analysts are bracing for a sharp sell-off in the stock after a U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory panel harshly judged the efficacy of the company’s experimental Alzheimer’s disease therapy, dimming prospects it will be approved by the agency. Wall Street firms didn’t mince words about the panel’s findings, which was that data from a single clinical trial with positive results was insufficient to show the treatment worked. Raymond James called it a “disaster,” while Baird wrote that the panelists had “skewered the company.” An approval of the treatment, called aducanumab, is now “virtually impossible,” it added. The panel’s conclusion triggered a whiplash for investors and analysts because it came just after a positive FDA report on aducanumab sparked a historic rally, with shares surging 44% to $355.63 on Nov. 4. The stock never got a chance to trade during Friday’s session because it was halted ahead of the advisory panel’s contradictory findings. Several analysts suggested that if the FDA were to approve the treatment now, the agency would suffer a devastating blow to its reputation. It was unclear whether the halt would last until Monday, or whether the stock might see some action after futures reopen Sunday evening. Jefferies predicted that Biogen shares would fall to a range of $220 to $250; they closed Nov. 5 at $328.90. This was “the most opposite of a panel vs FDA positive briefing book we’ve ever seen,” Michael Yee wrote in his analysis. Approving aducanumab could damage the agency’s scientific integrity and “raise more public skepticism around [the] FDA when there’s already scrutiny over vaccines.” The FDA’s review process will continue until there is a decision in March. Stifel expects the stock to remain volatile until then. “We will continue to work with the FDA as it completes its review of our application,” Michel Vounatsos, chief executive officer at Biogen, said in a statement Friday. Here’s what analysts are saying about the panel’s findings: