The global alliances and networks forged by major cities like New York can help President-elect Joe Biden repair America’s damaged international relationships. Photographer:  Michael Nagle/Bloomberg Photographer:  Michael Nagle/Bloomberg One day after the U.S. presidential election, as Americans waited to see if Joe Biden had succeeded in his bid to defeat an incumbent president, the United States formally left the Paris Agreement on climate change. It is hardly the only international agreement or partnership that the outgoing administration exited, weakened or ignored. Over four chaotic years, the current administration undermined ongoing international climate negotiations, ignored the U.S. commitment to the United Nations 2030 Agenda of Sustainable Development, and cast doubt on long-standing alliances, such as NATO. It’s no wonder that the U.S. image — as an asset and a component of so-called soft power — is at a nadir. But President Donald Trump did not succeed entirely in destroying the U.S. commitment to the Paris Agreement: In 2017, more than 300 U.S. cities pledged to uphold the climate pact at the local level. Similarly, many cities have been engaging in a variety of efforts that have helped to preserve, or to build anew, transnational relationships that the White House seemed determined to shred. While the administration attacked the United Nations at nearly every turn, New York City has driven the voluntary local review movement for the Sustainable Development Goals. And the City of Los Angeles built new and stronger relationships with Mexico, the U.S.’s second-largest trading partner, even as that White House vilified the country and its people. So-called “anarchist jurisdictions” turn out to be capable of making coherent, mature foreign policy. Yes, it is tough to believe, but on the global stage it all could have been even worse were it not for U.S. cities and mayors. And it is now up to Biden foreign policy officials to decide how to engage the local leaders and networks that have had their fingers in the dike helping hold back the floodwaters of U.S. global disengagement and recklessness for four years. There are reasons to be optimistic about their approach. To begin with, as a number of Bloomberg CityLab contributors have noted, U.S. cities have been international leaders around climate change, sustainability and equity. The Biden team appears to grasp this. The president-elect’s climate plan, for example, was more detailed than that of his rivals on the role cities might play in diplomacy, including as leading voices in early attempts to reestablish U.S. climate leadership. What is more, Biden’s foreign policy advisers seem to have internalized an important lesson from the 2016 election: The benefits of global engagement must be both shared and understandable. Diplomats practice their craft, almost by definition, abroad, and State Department officials have long confused the supposed nonpartisan nature of politics with an exemption from having to explain diplomacy’s benefits. But in the wake of the lockdowns and racial justice protests of 2020 — what Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf called the dual pandemics of racism and Covid-19 — global engagement will more than ever require domestic legitimacy. With these two key ideas in mind — that cities are already active on the global stage, and that foreign policy needs to have stronger linkages to domestic audiences — there are at least four initial steps that the new administration can take to leverage the work mayors are doing on global issues and to buttress U.S. foreign policy with increased domestic legitimacy. First, the incoming foreign policy apparatus must decide on which policy issues it will engage city networks. On climate change, for example, the Biden administration can build out relationships with C40 Cities Network and the Urban Sustainability Directors Network; to improve Covid-19 response, it should engage with the work of Metropolis and Cities for Health; on democracy and rights, United Cities and Local Governments and perhaps the Global Parliament of Mayors are key partners. Second, city leaders should be brought into policy processes on issues that directly affect urban spaces and where urban expertise is helpful. And the same can be said for voices from rural areas on relevant topics. There are precedents for this. In 2015, more than two dozen U.S. mayors traveled to France in support of the Paris Agreement negotiations. In 2016, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, in collaboration with the State Department, built out an extensive engagement effort in advance of and during Habitat III. Key domestic stakeholders were briefed on negotiations at the United Nations and their input integrated, where possible, into negotiating positions. Bringing city leaders into  such processes can help build legitimacy for the agreements at home while improving the quality of the policy positions for which the U.S. is negotiating. Third, State Department officials need to improve their ability to explain global issues in local, frequently urban terms. This will require both expertise and creativity. In 2015, then-Secretary of State John Kerry gave an address in Norfolk, Virginia, home to one of the largest U.S. naval bases, making clear that climate change is a security issue. Similar such efforts should be deployed by senior administration officials highlighting the intersection of urbanization and climate change, inequality and cybersecurity. But speeches are not enough. In the early Cold War, the effects of potential nuclear attacks on the United States were often explained through graphics that detailed the effects on American cities. This was not mere fear-mongering: The graphics helped explain the unimaginable in terms that people understood. Foreign policy experts should learn from communications teams in city halls around the country with regards to the mediums that best facilitate dialogue and idea exchange. Fourth and finally, the administration can provide clarity and support to cities with regard to shifting geopolitics. Not every issue of great power politics requires the attention of cities, but even those that remain the exclusive domain of international diplomacy create attendant effects in American cities. Take, for example, the way that city halls were brought directly into the increasingly tense U.S.-China relationship in October 2019, when, as a reciprocal act to Chinese policy shifts, the Trump Administration altered the regulations for contact between Chinese diplomatic officials and U.S. city governments. The new policy required Chinese officials to inform the State Department in advance of any meetings with local government officials, fundamentally altering relationships that local officials, particularly those charged with commercial development, had spent years if not decades building. While a State Department letter to the U.S. Conference of Mayors said that the new policy did not require local officials in the U.S. to seek federal approval before meeting with Chinese diplomats, there was confusion at the local level with regards to the new regulations. Do Whatsapp conversations or emails constitute meetings? What about formal gatherings at Chinese consulates? Are city officials responsible for checking that meetings have been cleared? In an era of tumultuous geopolitics, there will be more such policy shifts in the future, and cities can be better informed and supported with regards to meeting the coming changes. Geopolitics have returned to city hall to be sure — and they will continue to do so. The sheer facts of urbanization — the rapid expansion of land cover and population growth; the climate and economic effects — do not mean by definition that policymakers will adapt their practices. Megatrends do not, in and of themselves, alter policy. Such change requires institutions, advocates and reformers. The creation of an Office of Subnational Diplomacy at the State Department, now under consideration as part of the National Defense Authorization Act in the Senate, would solve part of the institutional challenge by appointing a diplomatic lead for urban affairs. Bureaucracies matter, even as it comes to processes as seemingly dynamic and powerful as those of urbanization. But the four steps above require something more: that foreign policy experts meet city leaders in recognizing that the relationship between domestic and foreign policy must undergo a dramatic change.Ian Klaus is senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. He is a co-author of Summary for Urban Policymakers: What the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C Means for Cities. Previously he was senior adviser for global cities at the U.S. Department of State.