Asian stocks looked to steady Wednesday after their U.S. peers retreated amid a selloff in technology shares and a worsening in coronavirus cases in many parts of the world. Futures pointed higher in Japan and were little changed in Hong Kong. Australia opened modestly firmer. S&P 500 futures edged up. The S&P 500 pulled back from a two-month high and the Nasdaq 100 closed almost 2% lower. Amazon.com Inc. sank as the online-retail giant faced an antitrust complaint from the European Union, while American depositary receipts of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. tumbled after China tightened the scrutiny over internet behemoths. Still, the Russell 2000 Index of small caps climbed to the highest since August 2018. Elsewhere, Treasury yields continued to rise toward the closely-watched 1% level. The dollar steadied following Monday’s gain. Investors will be watching Alibaba’s annual Singles’ Day, the online shopping phenomenon that could provide the latest insight into China’s economic recovery. Oil extended gains to the highest in more than two months. After enthusiasm on the prospects for a vaccine boosted global equities and sent havens into a tailspin, some analysts have said the moves may have gone too far. The coronavirus shot still has several hurdles to clear and there’s concern over fiscal stimulus, the transition of power to President-elect Joe Biden and a virus resurgence. The U.S. reported a record 142,907 new coronavirus infections on Monday and appears poised to reach the most hospitalizations yet later this week. A public vaccination campaign could begin by spring, Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said. “You still have a tremendous amount of uncertainty out there, and while equities may continue to climb a wall of worry, the stock market is still subject to the rules of gravity,” said Jonathan Boyar, managing director at Boyar Value Group. Subadra Rajappa, head of U.S. rates strategy at Societe Generale, sees a departure from bonds into risky assets with a lot of cash on the sidelines that needs to be put to work. Source: Bloomberg These are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Kamaron Leach, and Rita Nazareth