Most Asian stock markets were steady Wednesday, while U.S. futures slipped as investors weighed escalating Covid-19 cases against optimism over a vaccine. Japanese equities dropped after Tokyo reported a record number of daily virus infections. Stocks edged up in Hong Kong and Australia. European futures fell. The S&P 500 pulled back from a record high earlier. Pharmacy chains were among the worst performers after Amazon.com Inc. unveiled a new push into prescription drugs. Treasury yields and the dollar extended declines after Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the U.S. economy still has a “long way to go” before it fully recovers from the pandemic. China stocks posted modest gains, shrugging off news that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is pushing ahead with a plan that may kick Chinese companies off U.S. stock exchanges. China’s 10-year government notes are set for the highest since May 2019 amid concerns about tighter monetary policy as the economy recovers from the pandemic. Investors are taking a pause after sending stocks to all-time highs Monday in the wake of progress toward a vaccine. Wide distribution of a shot is still months away, and cases are spreading quickly in the U.S. and Europe. Tokyo is making arrangements to raise the city’s Covid-19 alert to the highest level, the Nikkei newspaper reported. On the stimulus front, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer on Tuesday asked Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to resume negotiations, while McConnell stuck to his insistence on a targeted package. “With the election uncertainty out of the way it’s about Covid; we’ve seen this exponential growth in cases,” said David Kudla, Mainstay Capital Management CEO and chief investment strategist. “It’s also about fiscal stimulus, when that finally comes, how much we get. We know we have good news on the vaccines, but those are out in the future.” Pfizer Inc. Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said that a key safety milestone had been reached in the study of its vaccine, and the drug maker is now preparing to seek an emergency-use authorization. Meanwhile, the pound added to gains on signs the U.K. and European Union are nearing a breakthrough on Brexit as early next week. Bitcoin surged past $18,000 to reach the highest levels since its dramatic December 2017 peak, before retreating back below that level. Grace Peters, head of European equity strategy at JPMorgan Private Bank, discusses global equities and her investment strategy. Source: Bloomberg Here are some events to watch out for this week: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Claire Ballentine, and Joanna Ossinger