Medical workers put on PPE before starting shifts at a Covid-19 drive-thru testing site in El Paso, Texas, on Nov. 9. The first post-virus Caribbean cruise returned to port early after an outbreak onboard the vessel. Tesla Inc.’s Elon Musk tweeted that he may have Covid-19, while calling tests “bogus”. Johnson & Johnson is working with UnitedHealth Group Inc. to help speed up finding participants for trials. Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s potential breakthrough vaccine still has a long way to go. A program for vaccines in poorer countries hit $2 billion of fundraising. Germany dashed optimism about an easing of restrictions by Christmas amid continued infections and Austria flagged plans for tougher rule. Italy will prolong a system of regional lockdowns. Japan may also introduce more stringent virus restrictions after suffering record infections. The U.K. plans to announce changes to travel-quarantine rules. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard and New York head John Williams both voiced concerns about the economic impact of the pandemic, echoing previous comments from Fed Chairman Jerome Powell. Bullard said in a speech that the “downside risk remains substantial.” Williams said he expects growth to slow, potentially into next year, during a virtual event hosted by the Financial Times. The first Caribbean cruise to set sail since an industry shutdown, returned early to Barbados after passengers got preliminary positive test results for Covid-19. SeaDream Yacht Club didn’t say how many passengers had received positive tests. A journalist onboard the vessel tweeted that there were as many as six possible cases. Drugmaker J&J teamed up with UnitedHeath to help find 60,000 participants for vaccine tests in a bid to potentially cut trial times in half. J&J has so far only enrolled a “few thousand” patients in a late-stage clinical trial, partly due to an earlier recruitment pause caused by a safety concern, Mathai Mammen, head of global research and development at the company’s pharmaceutical division, said in an interview. Covax, a program that aims to supply low- and middle-income countries with Covid-19 vaccines, said it has raised more than $2 billion, though it needs another $5 billion for next year. The EU, France, Spain, South Korea and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation pledged a combined $360 million, according to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the group leading the effort. Nation will receive more than 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses as part of the European Union’s pre-purchase program, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said Friday. The first doses are expected at the beginning of 2021, and some will be double ones. Greece may have the right to request more. The vaccine will be made available to all citizens and for free. Greece has a population of just under 11 million. The Austrian government will announce steps to tighten its second lockdown on Saturday, after initial measures failed to prevent infections rising. Daily new cases have jumped 73% since Oct. 31, when restrictions were announced, to a record 9,262 on Thursday. Austria has so far kept most schools and stores open, as well as services such as hairdressers. Only restaurants, cafes, cinemas, theaters and gyms have close. Economic activity -- measured by high-frequency indicators such as truck traffic, power consumption, unemployment data and location data -- only fell 7% last week, the central bank said. That compares with as much as 26% in March. Italy is set to extend its regional lockdown system beyond Dec. 3 when the current decree expires, Deputy Health Minister Pierpaolo Sileri said in an interview with Bloomberg TV. The country doesn’t need a new national lockdown, Sileri said. He also highlighted the first positive signs of containment in the most-hit region around Milan. Italian Deputy Health Minister Pierpaolo Sileri discusses the status of the coronavirus pandemic in the nation, focusing on regional lockdowns, and the ability to distribute a vaccine. He speaks with Bloomberg’s Francine Lacqua on “Bloomberg Surveillance.” ( Source: Bloomberg) German Health Minister Jens Spahn cooled optimism about a potential easing of restrictions, saying that infection numbers haven’t come down enough. He also said that the government had never promised that life would be back to normal in December. The country registered a near-record 24,738 new cases through Friday morning. On Monday, Chancellor Angela Merkel and the 16 state premiers will review current measures, which include a ban on non-essential travel and the closure of bars and restaurants.The on-going partial shutdown will lead to about 20 billion euros ($24 billion) in lower revenue this month for affected industries, according to Marcel Fratzscher, president of research institute DIW. “The big concern is that companies have been cutting back on investment and consumers are actually saving more,” despite the government’s stimulus efforts, Fratzscher said in an interview with Bloomberg TV. The U.K. will unveil changes to 14-day travel quarantine measures “very soon,” Transport Secretary Grant Shapps told Sky News. The government is “actively working” on reducing quarantine and self-isolation periods for international travelers, he said. Outbreaks have shot up in major European economies and in the U.S. Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control * Figures based on rolling 14-day total Kopenhagen Fur, the world’s largest auction house for furs, is closing down after Denmark’s government ordered a mass cull of the country’s mink in an effort to fight a coronavirus mutation. The 90-year-old company still has enough pelts to hold auctions next year and possibly further into the future, but will start liquidating the business after that, according to a statement on its website. Tesla Inc. Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk said he had taken four Covid-19 tests and two had come back positive. The founder of the world’s No. 1 electric-car maker also said on Twitter he was experiencing symptoms of a “typical cold. Nothing unusual so far.” The world’s largest vaccine maker is ramping up production of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 shot, aiming to have 100 million doses ready by December for an inoculation drive that could begin across India that same month. If final-stage trial data show AstraZeneca’s candidate gives effective protection from the virus, the Serum Institute of India Ltd. -- which is partnered to produce at least one billion doses -- may get emergency authorization from New Delhi by December, said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the family-owned firm based in the western city of Pune. Russian Direct Investment Fund reached agreement with South Korean pharmaceutical company GL Rapha to produce over 150 million doses a year of its first registered Covid-19 vaccines, Sputnik V, according to the vaccine’s Twitter account. Production will commence in December and vaccine will be distributed globally. The quest for a Covid-safe summer is going high-tech. Surf patrol guards at some of Sydney’s iconic beaches are using aerial drones so they can check sunbathers are evenly spaced on the sand. They’re trying to avoid a repeat of scenes in the early days of the pandemic when authorities were forced to close Bondi Beach and other spots after thousands flocked to the coast, with many ignoring social-distancing rules. Actions by governments and central banks have put a floor under the world economy, IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said, cautioning nations against withdrawing support too early. “Because of the decisive action of governments and central banks, we managed to put a floor under the world economy,” she said Friday in a recorded message at the Caixin Summit in Beijing. “We are seeing the green shoots of recovery.” The fatality rate of infected people in the U.S. has declined 30% since April due to improved treatment, a study from the University of Washington’s Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation found. The researchers forecast that total U.S. deaths will reach 439,000 by March next year, after topping 2,200 a day in mid-January as the number of cases rise. That forecast includes 33 states reimposing broad-reaching social distancing mandates. Successful treatment ahead could become more difficult as hospitalizations rise. Eleven states are expected to have “extreme stress” on general hospital beds in December through February. JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategists have increased their exposure to global stocks and backed away further from sovereign bonds, calling this week’s positive vaccine news a “game changer” for markets. The breakthrough will allow investors to look past the resurgence in coronavirus cases toward the end of pandemic and the broader reopening of the global economy, according to a team including Marko Kolanovic. Bolstering JPMorgan’s bullish view was a positive third quarter earnings season and benign U.S. election outcome, it added. California surpassed 1 million cases of the coronavirus, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The state, home to about 40 million residents, trails only Texas in reaching the grim milestone. California was home to one of the earliest outbreaks of Covid-19 and the first to enact a statewide lockdown in March, only to see infections soar in the summer. Like the rest of the U.S., it’s seeing a virus resurgence after an autumn lull, with its 14-day average of new cases climbing 76% in the past month. A Covid-19 testing venue in Los Angeles, California on Thursday. Photographer: Frederic J. Brown/AFP/Getty Images Almost a third of California’s cases are in Los Angeles County, the most populous. The state has had more than 18,000 fatalities from the virus, behind only New York and Texas. The Ivy League athletic conference is canceling its winter sports season, as the Covid-19 pandemic forces schools to rethink in-person activities while infections are rising across the U.S. The league, home to Harvard, Yale and Princeton universities, also won’t conduct competition for fall sports during the upcoming spring semester, it said Thursday in a statement. Intercollegiate athletics competition for spring sports is postponed through at least the end of February. Covid-19 cases are increasing in 94% of U.S. jurisdictions, and the death rate in non-metro areas is more than double that in urban areas, according to U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. #COVID19 cases continue to rise with 94% of U.S. jurisdictions experiencing increases. On 11/11, CDC reported 143,408 new cases, the highest for a single day. Help slow the spread. Wear a mask, wash your hands, and stay 6 feet from others. Learn more: https://t.co/1nMYQAjpSq pic.twitter.com/HxQSVTuk0F — With assistance by Jonas O Bergman, Emma Court, Max Reyes, Keshia Clukey, Shruti Singh, Henry Goldman, Stacie Sherman, Isabel Reynolds, Kara Wetzel, Raymond Colitt, Chris Reiter, Boris Groendahl, Jasmina Kuzmanovic, Paul Tugwell, and James Paton