Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Zambia is poised to become Africa’s first sovereign default since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic after saying it won’t pay a coupon due Friday. Holders of Zambia’s $3 billion of Eurobonds rejected a request on Friday to suspend interest payments for six months, leaving it to meet a deadline of the end of the day to pay $42.5 million interest due on its 2024 notes to avoid falling into default. The standoff sets the tone for what will be tough restructuring negotiations with a diverse set of external creditors that Zambia owes nearly $12 billion, from pension funds in Europe to state-owned Chinese banks. It will be closely watched by other poor nations seeking debt relief, as well as fixed-income investors worried about where the next potential default may be. “I would expect debt-restructuring talks for the Eurobonds to be very difficult and I would expect them to be protracted,” said Phillip Blackwood, an adviser to Sydbank, which holds Zambian Eurobonds. “They will need to demonstrate a willingness to secure fiscal consolidation, preferably through the International Monetary Fund. They will also need to not just try to skirt around the China debt issues, mired in profligacy and lack of transparency.” Zambia couched its request for an interest-payment holiday from bondholders as part of the Group of 20’s so-called Debt Servicing Standstill Initiative, an agreement between rich nations to suspend interest payments owed to them by poor countries. The government said it was asking all its foreign creditors, including private lenders, for the same relief, and would treat all equally. China Development Bank last month deferred an interest payment. “Given our precarious fiscal position that requires us to treat all creditors pari-passu, Zambia would unfortunately have no other alternative but to accumulate arrears,” Finance Minister Bwalya Ng’andu said in a text message after bondholders formally rejected the standstill request. Zambia will now move into negotiations with all its creditors on how to restructure as much as $12 billion in external debt. A default would give holders of all three bonds the right to demand immediate repayment. While it’s unlikely they’ll take that route, Zambia could be locked out of international capital markets for years. “Government is strongly committed to pursue a constructive and very transparent dialog with all its creditors including bondholders to define a new cooperative and orderly process to put the debt back on a sustainable trajectory and thus be able to get out of the default situation,” Ng’andu said. Bondholders were concerned any relief they granted would be used to service debts owed to the Chinese lenders, which account for more than a quarter of Zambia’s external liabilities. But other governments shouldn’t see Zambia as an example, said Simon Quijano-Evans, an economist at Gemcorp Capital in London. “Zambia can’t be used as a comparison to other countries, simply because it failed to approach the IMF over several years and failed to be transparent,” he said. “Other countries like Angola and Ghana did exactly the opposite and are thus in a much better position than Zambia now.” While the coronavirus pandemic added to Zambia’s woes, with the economy forecast to shrink for the first time since 1998, its debt problems started years earlier. The government borrowed heavily since 2012, building up nearly $12 billion in external debt and ignoring warnings from the IMF of growing debt distress risks. The country’s $1 billion of 2024 Eurobonds pared an advance to trade 0.4% higher at 45 cents on the dollar by 2:30 p.m. in London. The bonds have lost 34% of their face value this year. G-20 Backs New Rules To Deepen Debt Help to Poor Hit by Virus Some Eurobond investors, including Blackwood, argue that Zambia’s debt woes only emerged in the years after it tapped international markets, and turned to China for funds. The nation sold its first dollar bond in 2012 and the last one in 2015. “From Eurobond holders’ side, this is not about an unwillingness or otherwise to forgive debt,” said Blackwood. “It is clear to Eurobond holders that the debt problems escalated when the bilateral loans accelerated, after the Eurobonds were issued. The nature of those deals quickly caused problems for the country.”