Travelers wearing protective masks walk through San Francisco International Airport on Monday. Airlines set a new post-pandemic record for U.S. passengers on Sunday as the Thanksgiving holiday spurred travel despite government warnings. Many Americans who would have typically spent Thanksgiving with family and friends outside their household may be staying home for the holiday this year. But not everyone will be stopped by a global pandemic. The American Automobile Association (AAA) predicted in October that overall travel would fall “at least 10%” compared to last year  to about 50 million people. It’s the largest one-year decrease since the Great Recession in 2008, and the group notes that given a recent surge in coronavirus cases and related restrictions, the drop may be even steeper. An advisory from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a travel advisory last Thursday urging people to skip travel and celebrate only with those in their households, and after the U.S. recorded over  1 million new cases in just the first 10 days of November. Here are the latest travel projections for the holiday by mode of transportation. Air travel is projected to drop dramatically — by half compared to last holiday season, according to AAA. But relative to travel volume during the rest of the pandemic, the number of people boarding a plane this week is poised to reach a new high. Data from the Transportation Security Administration this week as of Tuesday shows this past weekend to be the busiest travel weekend since mid-March, with security check-ins surpassing 1 million on both Friday and Sunday, compared with daily check-ins of around 2 million last year. The only other time check-ins reached that volume since the pandemic began in the U.S. was in mid-October. More than 1.04 million people passed through U.S. airports on Sunday, beating the 1.03 million record previously set on Oct. 18. The weekend before Thanksgiving was slightly busier Source: TSA checkpoint travel numbers  To accommodate the surge of travelers and last-minute bookings, airlines have added nearly 461,000 seats this week — up 3.7% from the previous week — bringing the total capacity of air travel to more than 13 million, according to data from the flight analytics company OAG. Southwest Airlines Co. alone accounts for 400,000 of those seats, according to John Grant, senior analyst at OAG. But not every airline has taken that approach: American Airlines Group Inc. has cut its capacity by roughly 10% compared with last week, citing low ticket sales even in light of the upcoming holiday period. In fact, Grant says he expects seat capacity to outweigh flight demand. “We’re seeing half the bookings that we were seeing this time last year,” he tells CityLab. Number of seats available for the three major U.S. airline companies Source: OAG  Iahn Gonsenhauser, the chief quality and patient safety officer at Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, says that the data, so far, isn’t clear about the risk of virus spread during air travel, even as airlines enthusiastically advertise extensive cleaning, advanced ventilation technology and reduced seating capacity to keep passengers safe. Southwest and Delta Air Lines Inc. are, for example, keeping the middle seats empty at least until after the Thanksgiving holiday. Delta plans to keep limited capacity through March 2021, while Southwest will join United Airlines Holdings Inc. and American Airlines in  flying at full capacity starting in December. “People tend to focus on the time in the airplane as their risk moment, but this is really about all of the activities that surround the primary activity,” he says. “So with traveling by plane, in order to do it, people may take a ride-share or public transport to get to the airport. And they might be in an elevator with many people, or in line at the ticket counter and again at the TSA [screening].” In fact,  photos from this week  revealed crowded airports with a lack of social distancing in at least some areas. Meanwhile, Thanksgiving travel volume by buses, trains and cruises is expected to fall by  76% compared to last year, according to AAA. A spokesman for Amtrak told The New York Times that demand for travel by train is only 20% of what it was last year. And Megabus, one company providing long-distance bus service, has dramatically slashed trips and entire routes. On one of its busiest routes, between New York City and Washington, D.C, the company has gone from making 41 round trips on Thanksgiving week in 2019 to just 14 this year, and with buses only half full to allow for social distancing. Other routes saw dramatic drops as well. Round trips between Dallas and Houston in Texas fell from seven trips to two, while trips between Chicago and Minneapolis dropped from six to just one. Megabus director of corporate affairs Sean Hughes says this is a reflection of both lower passenger demand and a motorcoach industry on the  brink of collapse without the passage of a $10 billion emergency relief package through the Coronavirus Economic Relief for Transportation Services (CERTS) Act in Congress. “We are managing this, quite literally, week to week or day by day,” he says, based on how governments and consumers are reacting to new numbers of Covid-19 cases. One motorcoach company, Megabus, has cut back on routes in response to plummeting demand Source: Megabus  The drop in air, bus and train trips can in part be attributed to the fact that most Americans who are traveling are choosing to drive instead, in a bid to minimize contact with other people. Some 48 million auto travelers are expected to be on the road this week — only a 4.3% drop from this time last year. In all, AAA predicts 95% of this year’s Thanksgiving travel will be done via car. This estimate is subject to particular fluctuation, because one attribute of traveling by car is that it enables greater flexibility for people still deliberating about how to spend the holiday. For those who do drive, the trips may be different than in previous years. “Those who decide to travel are likely to travel shorter distances, and reduce the number of days they are away, making road trips the dominant form of travel this Thanksgiving,” AAA spokeswoman Julie Hall wrote in an email. “Generally speaking, the time in your vehicle is just your household so it's much easier to mitigate the risk associated with Covid, than it is to mitigate when you're flying,” says Gonsenhauser. And Hall advises people to minimize the number of stops, and pack meals and drinks along with an emergency roadside kit. Some 21% of Americans who plan to participate in holiday celebrations said they will likely spend it with people outside their immediate household, according to a national survey of more than 2,000 people by Gonsenhauser and his colleagues. The survey, done in early November, also found that 62% said they will gather in groups of fewer than 10, indicating that others may attend larger holiday parties. Gonsenhauser suspects some respondents may have been reluctant to disclose plans out of guilt, or had a loose definition of household. Still, health experts like Gonsenhauser worry about the consequences of gathering, regardless of the travel method. His survey at the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, while small, demonstrates that most Americans are at least aware of the necessary precautions to mitigate risk, and willing to take them. Almost three-quarters of respondents say they will stay six feet apart before and after the actual dinner, while 67% intend on asking all attendees to wear masks.  Source: the Wexner Medical Center at Ohio State University  When used appropriately, masks have shown to be effective at curbing Covid spread. But Gonsenhauser worries that people don’t always keep them on at social gatherings. "What happens around personal gathering is that there is some involvement of eating and drinking, and all of these moment when the masks are not able to be used — that's what creates a problem,” Gonsenhauser says. He adds that if you must gather indoors, at the very least separate households into tables, spaced six feet apart, during the dinner. Or, even better, put them in separate rooms. Gonsenhauser had planned to drive from Ohio to the Colorado mountains with his wife and two kids, and meet up with his sister’s family in a rented house to spend Thanksgiving together. “It was what we thought would be a safe and responsible trip,” he says. It would just be the eight of them, and both families had been quarantining in preparation for the gathering. But as Covid cases began to spike over the last few weeks in the U.S. and broke new single-day records, Gonsenhauser ultimately decided to cancel the trip. Instead he’ll spend the day at home with his immediate household, and invite extended family only via video conferencing. So he understands the difficult decision Americans face as the holiday approaches. “Everyone is in need of seeing their family, and having a little time away from wherever you've been surviving the past eight months,” he says. “But at the end of the day just the idea of bringing together two households from different parts of the country was what we felt really the highest risk, and we just weren't really willing to take it.”