Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Ethiopian federal troops began an artillery offensive against the city of Mekelle as the government seeks to break the hold of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front on the region. TPLF leader Debretsion Gebremichael confirmed that the government offensive is under way. There were no immediate reports of casualties or specific targets being hit, according to two senior United Nations officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. The artillery was used in the north of the city, they said. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on Thursday ordered his troops to attack Mekelle after a deadline for the regional forces to surrender had expired. The UN has warned that half a million of the city’s inhabitants may be caught in the crossfire between federal troops and regional security forces. Why Ethiopia’s Tensions Are Boiling Over in Tigray: QuickTake The army began an incursion into Tigray three weeks ago, after Abiy accused the TPLF of attacking a military base to steal weapons. The TPLF, once the predominant power in Ethiopia’s ruling coalition, has been progressively sidelined since Abiy took office in 2018.    The hostilities have triggered a humanitarian crisis across Tigray, with tens of thousands of people displaced and food, cash and fuel shortages now widespread, and the government is facing mounting international pressure to de-escalate the conflict. There are no accurate figures of the number of people who’ve died in the fighting. “Today the forces of Abiy Ahmed and [Eritrean President] Isaias Afwerki bombarded the densely populated town center and infrastructure of Mekelle with heavy artillery,” the Tigray state broadcaster reported. “They have also conducted air raids on several sites in Mekelle.” Tigray forces sent several rockets toward Asmara, the capital of Eritrea, late on Friday, three foreign diplomats with knowledge of the attack said. The U.S. Embassy in Eritrea said in a statement on its website that “a loud noise, possibly an explosion, was heard in Asmara, likely emanating from outside the city” at 8:24 p.m. local time.