The New York MTA’s new digital map can show trains moving in real time. Courtesy of Work & Co. Courtesy of Work & Co. On Oct. 20, the New York City subway got its first major wayfinding update in more than four decades: a digital map that shows trains moving in real time. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority released the map with a 10-minute documentary featuring slick subway shots, bouncy animations and interviews with creators at Work & Co., the design and technology company that built the map pro-bono. Media responded with fanfare. Curbed’s Christopher Bonanos wrote that the new digital map “resolves the Great Subway Map Debate,” referring to the controversy over the 1972 subway diagram by Massimo Vignelli. Now an icon of graphic design, the map was also a navigational nightmare, and got pulled out of service after just seven years due to its confusing distortion of the city’s geography. The 1979 map from Michael Hertz Associates, which is presently displayed in stations, offers passengers a more realistic, if less attractive, depiction of the city’s layout. The new map evokes Vignelli’s concept of straight lines and even spacing between stops when readers zoom in. Zoom out and the colored lines shift to reflect the truer-to-life map New Yorkers are familiar with today — a feature that seeks to balance the age-old cartographic tension between accuracy and legibility, as the documentary notes. The quest to digitize one of the world’s most complex transit systems began 18 months ago when the Transit Innovation Partnership, a public-private alliance working to modernize New York’s mass transportation system, introduced the MTA to Work & Co. Historically, the transit operator has communicated service changes with notices plastered across station walls, which can create confusion for one-time and frequent subway riders alike. Hoping to ameliorate those navigational challenges, the Work & Co. project team understood that the map had to reflect delays and track closures in real time, and worked closely with the MTA on both the look of the map and the underlying data. One effective instance of this coupling is the visualization of live vehicle locations. Little rectangles inch along the system’s sweeping colored bands, reminding the user that the subway, and the map, are dynamic. It is a step forward for a sprawling agency that hasn’t always known where its own trains are located on the tracks. “I’m excited the MTA got this comfortable with showing our data this publicly,” said Joshua Gee, the MTA’s director of digital customer experience. The timing of the project is meaningful, says Felipe Memoria, Work & Co. founding partner. At a time when  New York’s MTA faces a severe funding crisis, he sees the effort as a way to instill hope in a city, and a transit system, still recovering from the pandemic. “We wanted to put it in front of users, especially during this time that we’re living in,” Memoria said. Some critics, however, have complained that, in trying to do two things at once, the map does neither very well. On Twitter, a number of transit advocates and map obsessives say that the map prioritizes aesthetics at the expense of legibility. For example, the M, J, and Z lines appear to bypass the Williamsburg Bridge (in reality their tracks sit squarely in the middle of the deck). And the Q seems to zig-zag along Coney Island. “I... what in the f--k is this?” tweeted self-described “radical cartographer” and transit activist Andrew Lynch. “DO NOT put a distorted diagram over the geographic map. This is an abomination of a map.” New York historian and cartographer John Tauranac also had a harsh review of the MTA effort. “This is such a geographical mess, I can’t begin to tell you,” said Tauranac, who served as creative director at the MTA for much of the 1970s, overseeing development of the 1979 map still in use today. He took issue with several color and labeling choices but was most bothered by how “the basic didactic information is derived from the failed Vignelli map.” Straightened lines and simplified curves, fixed at 45- and 90-degree angles, run counter to the underlying ground truth in places where subway routing follows more complicated bends. “A good subway map will get from A, where you are, to B, the closest convenient subway station, to C, the subway station that will take you to D, your ultimate destination,” Tauranac said. “If you’re going to show the subway routing on top of the street pattern, you follow the bloody street pattern.” Several voices on Twitter were peeved for a different reason: They pointed out that a digital MTA map, arguably superior, already exists. At a transportation conference in Brooklyn last year, software developer (and avid NUMTOT) Sunny Ng unveiled an open-source creation he calls The Weekendest — a riff on the name of the MTA’s previous service-change map, called The Weekender. That map has several of the same features of the MTA’s new map, but abides by New York’s familiar geography. “I created something very similar because I felt that there was a need that wasn’t being fulfilled,” Ng said. “The fact that you couldn’t see a visualization of how the trains are currently running on weekends and overnight has been a huge problem with riding the subway.” The MTA team takes the criticism in stride, acknowledging that their project isn’t flawless. The reason for many of the map’s wonky moments, Gee said, is that the lines change position based on information about daily stop closures and service changes. “We had to basically invent a [programming] language for the lines to draw themselves,” he said. “The system is too big to have done this with a curated set of static designs.” The agency isn’t preoccupied with fixing every minor visual misstep, Gee said: “My goal is to clean up things that are inaccurate or wrong first.” Memoria agreed: “That’s how digital product development works. You launch something that you believe in and you make it better with feedback.” Gee also offered only kind words for Ng’s map. “I think the Weekendest is tremendous,” he said. “There are about a trillion different ways you could make the tradeoff between geographic accuracy and helpfulness.” For riders, the more maps, the better: He thinks the notion of one “canonical” map is outdated. (For those who love the feel of paper, Tauranac self-published his own update on the New York City subway map in April, which he says is “pretty darned good.”) Apart from the hardcore map nerds, many everyday passengers were impressed with the MTA’s announcement. New York Daily News columnist Sam Schwartz praised the map as a “tremendous step forward,” and one rider tweeted “My life is honestly complete now that I can see subway trains moving in real time.” Another wrote, “What a gift to New Yorkers.” Ultimately, passengers will use whatever map that they like best. “We’re all trying to make public transportation better and help cities,” said Memoria. “It’s a difficult time, so the more people that work on those things, the better.” An optimistic view of the new MTA map is that it signals an advance in both wayfinding and the culture of a bureaucratic agency that is beginning to embrace the digital world. Recent initiatives — such as the MTA’s partnership with CitySwift to remotely monitor train capacity and the 2017 Genius Competition, an international fix-the-subway contest — could be seen as evidence of this. On the other hand, the agency has also been criticized before for sidestepping more pressing issues, such as service improvements, in favor of eye-catching stopgaps, however half-baked. To its critics, the map might look like a little of both. But Ng, for one, defends the MTA effort, despite its quirks and shortcomings. “It’s easy to s--t on things that public agencies do,” Ng said. “At the end of the day, even though what they put out is not perfect, it’s still in a good direction.”