A medical staff member treats a Covid-19 patient at a hospital in Houston, Texas, on Nov. 8. The U.S. broke a record again Friday for daily Covid-19 infections, reporting at least 167,429 new cases, and states were clamping down. New York City may close schools as soon as Monday as statewide infections reached 5,000, the most since spring. Oregon will impose a two-week “freeze,” restricting retail, restaurants, gyms and gatherings. New Mexico ordered non-essential businesses shut. Wyoming may impose its first state mask mandate. President Donald Trump dismissed the notion of a lockdown in his first public comments in eight days, contrasting with President-elect Joe Biden’s call for an “immediate federal response” to the surge. Nevada Governor Steve Sisolak said he tested positive and will go into quarantine. South Korea reported its most new cases since Sept. 1. China has suspended flights from Bangladesh and Nepal after passengers tested positive to coronavirus. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Outbreaks have shot up in major European economies and in the U.S. Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control * Figures based on rolling 14-day total New Yor City school buildings will close out of caution if the citywide Covid-19 infection rate reaches 3%, Jay Varma, the mayor’s top health adviser said in an interview Friday. The city’s seven-day rolling average of positive test results hit 2.83%, up from less than 2% at the start of the month. South Korea reports 205 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours vs. 191 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. The number of total cases is 28,338. There were 166 locally infected, with 63 new cases in Seoul and 46 in Gyeonggi province. Total deaths rose by four to 492 Nevada Governor Steve Sisolak said he tested positive for the virus and will go into quarantine. The Democratic leader said he doesn’t have symptoms, though felt fatigue earlier in the week. The positive result was from a rapid test, and he is awaiting confirmation from a separate test. “With this case, I want to underscore the importance of Nevadans to stay at home as much as they possibly can at this time,” Sisolak said on Twitter. Nevada, like the rest of the U.S., has had a rapid increase in infections. China’s civil aviation administrator issued an order to suspend operations of two foreign routes after six passengers tested positive for coronavirus on each flight earlier this month, according to a statement late Friday. The flights, from Bangladesh and Nepal, will be halted from Nov. 16 and Nov. 23 respectively. China eased its ban on foreign airlines in June but kept restrictions on flight operations depending on the number of passengers that tested positive. U.S. cases rose by a record Friday, topping the 152,255 reported on Wednesday evening, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. The incomplete tally was 167,429, and Friday was the ninth consecutive day with more than 100,000 cases. Deaths increased to 2,141, the most since late June. In Newark, New Jersey, where positivity is almost double the state’s rate, Mayor Ras Baraka encouraged all 280,000 residents to get tested. “You should really just stay inside for the next two weeks,” Baraka said in a Facebook live broadcast. People who are encouraging others to socialize irresponsibly, he said, “are leading you to slaughter.” Positivity in New Jersey’s most populous city, is 22%, while New Jersey’s rate is 12%, he said. Household spread is among the biggest concerns, he said, particularly because cases are being traced to younger, asymptomatic people, and families are planning to gather for the Thanksgiving holiday. “You, Grandma, the 10-year-old, the 11-year-old, the 7-year-old, the high school student -- everybody needs to get tested. Every single person,” Baraka said. Texas virus hospitalizations climbed above 7,000 for the first time since Aug. 12 as hot spots multiplied in the second-largest U.S. state. Hospitalizations have surged 40% statewide in less than three weeks, straining already full intensive-care wards in the hardest-hit enclaves such as El Paso and Amarillo. Almost half the state’s 22 trauma service areas have more than 10% of hospital capacity occupied by Covid-19 patients, according to state health department data. There were 10,542 new cases reported on Friday, the third time in four days that positive tests exceeded 10,000. Biden on Friday urged the Trump administration to undertake an immediate federal response as Covid-19 surges across the country and called on Americans to step up their vigilance in guarding against the virus. “This crisis demands a robust and immediate federal response, which has been woefully lacking,” the president-elect said in a written statement released after a meeting Friday with his transition Covid-19 Advisory Board. “Urgent action is needed.” New Mexico’s governor is ordering the shutdown of non-essential businesses. The action, announced by Michelle Lujan Grisham’s office, is intended to relieve the “dramatically escalating strain on hospitals and health care providers across the state,” the Santa Fe New Mexican reported. The two-week shutdown starts Monday. Wyoming Governor Mark Gordon, a Republican, said for the first time the state is considering a mask mandate. Gordon had been in quarantine after being exposed to the virus. “We’ve relied on people to be responsible, and they’re being irresponsible,” Gordon said at a news briefing. “I’m very concerned, and angry, about the conditions in our state. We are being knuckleheads about this.” Wyoming hospitals are operating near or at capacity. Gordon has been a proponent of personal responsibility regarding masks. California’s top health official said new coronavirus cases are rising faster than at any point during the pandemic and warned more stringent measures may be needed to stop the spike. In the first seven days of November, the daily case count per 100,000 people jumped 47%, a faster increase than the state endured during a major surge this summer. California, which has surpassed a million virus cases, on Friday joined Oregon and Washington in suggesting that people traveling to or from the those states self-quarantine for 14 days. Mark Ghaly, secretary of the California Health and Human Services Agency, said the advisory could be toughened if the surge in cases continues. He said a statewide stay-at-home order isn’t currently under discussion, although he didn’t rule it out for the future. “As I say to my patients, often, ‘When I’m worried, I’ll tell you, so you can worry with me.’ And we’re there,” Ghaly said. Residents of Canada’s financial capital were asked to avoid leaving their homes except for essential reasons to slow a virus outbreak that has left hospitals at risk of being overwhelmed. Toronto, the country’s largest city, and most of its suburbs are being placed in a “control-red” zone under Ontario’s Covid-19 framework, Premier Doug Ford said Friday. The move means tighter restrictions on most indoor businesses and activities -- closing movie theaters and some personal care services and placing tight limits on restaurants and fitness centers. Colorado Governor Jared Polis called on President Trump to turn his attention to Covid-19 skeptics as infections and deaths increase across the U.S. “We are able to reach who we reach,” Polis said at a news conference. “I think President Trump reaches additional people that would hang on his words and follow his advice if he were to offer it.” Polis also urged the state’s residents to “self-quarantine before you go to the Thanksgiving table” with friends and extended family for two weeks – starting now. Infections in Denver, the state’s largest city with a population of roughly 700,000, are running at an estimated 1-in-64 people, Polis said. Oregon ordered what amounted to a limited lockdown Friday, as Governor Kate Brown said the state was facing “a very dangerous situation.” Calling it a two-week “freeze,” which begins on Nov 18, Brown called for curtailed capacity at grocery stories and pharmacies, gyms shut and restaurants limited to takeout only. Indoor and outdoor gatherings cannot exceed six people, and masks should be worn at all times, indoors and out, except when eating and drinking. “Whether we like or not we are about to face what might be the roughest days of the pandemic,” she said at a news conference. Michigan reported 118 deaths, the most since the first wave of Covid-19 last spring, and 8,516 new infections, the second consecutive daily record. Hospitalizations, which have been doubling every two weeks, are five times higher than at the beginning of October. The state set yet another record Friday as it reported 8,071 cases, some 2,200 more than two days ago. “We are facing a monumental crisis in Ohio,” Governor Mike DeWine tweeted. The Republican governor told the state Wednesday that he would step up enforcement of the mask mandate, and new restrictions may be ordered if infections did not come under control. The state reported 42 deaths, compared with the 21-day average of 25. We are facing a monumental crisis in Ohio. Since yesterday, 8,071 new #COVID19 cases were reported. Nearly 300 more people were admitted to Ohio hospitals. 42 more people have died.  It is up to everyone to slow this virus down. Protect your family and friends. Wear a mask. pic.twitter.com/MCSIWjrGom New York state’s daily Covid-19 cases exceeded 5,000 for the first time since April. Of 203,721 tests reported yesterday, 5,401 or 2.65% were positive, Governor Andrew Cuomo said Friday on Twitter. Today's update on the numbers:Of the 203,721 tests reported yesterday, 5,401 were positive (2.65% of total).Total hospitalizations are at 1,737.Sadly, there were 24 COVID fatalities yesterday. pic.twitter.com/7cw62Mk8qN The governors of six northeastern states will have an emergency meeting this weekend to discuss regional coronavirus policies, Cuomo said on Friday. He said it was likely each state would take steps to rein in the recent surge around the region, one part of the dramatic nationwide Covid-19 increase. Puerto Rico will activate the National Guard on Monday to force compliance with Covid-19 measures, including a 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew, occupancy limits at restaurants and other locations, and mandatory mask policies. Governor Wanda Vazquez said the extra manpower is needed as residents have been flouting some of the strictest rules of any U.S. jurisdiction. Illinois reported a record number of daily Covid-19 tests, cases and hospitalizations. Cases rose to 15,415 from 12,702 a day earlier, while hospitalizations increased to 5,362 from 5,258, according to the Illinois Department of Public Health. The state also conducted a record 106,540 tests in one day, with its positivity rate reaching 13.2%. Deaths declined to 27 from 43. The data came a day after Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot issued a 30-day stay-at-home advisory that starts Monday. Mayor Bill de Blasio said New York City schools could end in-person classes as soon as Monday and parents should be considering their options. “People should get ready,” De Blasio said on WYNC-FM radio. “Parents should have a plan for the rest of the month.” The mayor has said school doors will shut when the city’s positive Covid test rate hits 3%. The seven-day rolling average is 2.83% -- meaning the “number has gotten quite close,” he said. Italy’s new cases reached a record 40,902, while Covid-19 patients in intensive care increased by 60 to 3,230 on Friday, the smallest rise in three weeks. New deaths fell for the first day in five to 550. Italy’s government is likely to extend its region-by-region lockdown system through the winter, Deputy Health Minister Pierpaolo Sileri said. The country will decide if any additional area will be included in the highest-risk zone in its weekly review later Friday. The governors of California, Oregon and Washington -- three states with a combined population of more than 51 million -- issued travel advisories urging visitors entering their states or people returning home to self-quarantine to slow the spread of the virus. “COVID-19 does not stop at state lines,” Oregon Governor Kate Brown said. Austria’s government plans to announce steps to tighten its second lockdown on Saturday. Most schools, stores and services such as hairdressers have remained open, while restaurants, cafes, cinemas, theaters and gyms have closed. Daily new cases have jumped 73% since Oct. 31, when restrictions were announced, to a record 9,262 on Thursday. Italian Deputy Health Minister Pierpaolo Sileri discusses the status of the coronavirus pandemic in the nation, focusing on regional lockdowns, and the ability to distribute a vaccine. He speaks with Bloomberg’s Francine Lacqua on “Bloomberg Surveillance.” ( Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Tim Smith