Billionaire investors and entertainment moguls are among the big names from Wall Street to Silicon Valley to Hollywood who’ve helped power Joe Biden’s record-breaking fundraising. Tony James, vice chairman of Blackstone Group Inc., LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, and U.S.-Israeli movie producer Haim Saban were some of the biggest names on the list released by Biden’s campaign late Saturday. In all, the list showed 724 individuals and 93 couples who raised at least $100,000 for the campaign and its joint fundraising committees, one of which, the Biden Victory Fund, can accept donations up to $827,800. The volunteer fundraisers, sometimes referred to as bundlers, raised at least $81.7 million, though the actual amount is most likely far higher.Other Wall Street figures who raised money for Biden include Blair Effron, co-founder of Centerview Partners; Deven Parekh, managing director of Insight Partners; and Roger Altman, the founder of Evercore, who hosted a virtual fundraising event for Biden on Oct. 14. Morgan Stanley Vice Chairman Tom Nides, Eton Park Capital Management founder Eric Mindich, investor Alan Patricof of Greycroft Partners LLC, and hedge-fund manager Orin Kramer also raised money for Biden. Venture capitalists Ron Conway, founder of SV Angel, and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers co-founder Brook Byers were among the Silicon Valley investors who raised money for the former vice president. In addition to Saban, Biden’s entertainment industry bundlers included Donna Langley, chairman of Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, Bela Bajaria, the head of global television at Netflix, and Quibi founder Jeffrey Katzenberg. Biden had back-to-back record breaking fundraising months in August and September, and with the Democratic National Committee has raised $1.3 billion since he clinched the nomination. Trump, who does not voluntarily release the names of his bundlers, raised $984 million for his re-election effort over the same period. Some of the bundlers backed Biden’s running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, when she was running for the top spot in the ticket in 2019. Siris Capital Group co-founder Frank Baker and his wife Laura Day, television producer Dayna Bochco and California Lt. Governor Eleni Kounalakis all raised money for Harris’s primary campaign. Current and former government officials raised money for Biden, including Representative Adam Schiff of California, who led the House’s impeachment inquiry into Trump’s effort to get Ukraine’s newly elected president to investigate Biden, and some key battleground state politicians, including Gretchen Whitmer and Tom Wolf, the governors of Michigan and Pennsylvania, respectively. Among Biden’s opponents for the Democratic nomination, Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and former South Bend., Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg made the list of bundlers. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who co-hosted a June fundaiser with Biden that pulled in $6 million, was not included on the list.