Follow Bloomberg on  Telegram for all the investment news and analysis you need. Treasuries jumped, the dollar climbed and U.S. equity futures pushed higher as early tallies suggested the outcome of the American presidential election could be closer than polls had suggested. Benchmark Treasury yields swung wildly, falling at one point below 0.8% after earlier surpassing 0.9%. The dollar advanced the most since June after erasing losses. S&P 500 futures swung between gains and losses before climbing, while a surge in Nasdaq 100 contracts triggered a brief trading halt. The offshore yuan and Mexican peso retreated and gold fell. Joe Biden scored initial wins in traditionally Democratic states in the eastern U.S. while President Donald Trump won Republican strongholds in the south and Midwest, according to the Associated Press and networks, with key battlegrounds still to be decided. Trump’s strong showing across the Sun Belt in early results appeared to significantly shrink Biden’s path to victory. Follow along here for our real-time news updates and analysis. Elsewhere, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. tumbled as much as 9.3% in Hong Kong after China halted the initial public offering of Ant Group Co., in which Alibaba owns about a one-third stake. Asian stocks were mixed with Japan outperforming and Australia lagging. Investors are bracing for the outcome of a divisive election following weeks of speculation that a contested result could roil markets. Heading into Tuesday, polls indicated Biden was ahead of Trump, though the race looked tight in some battleground states. “Early prospects for a quick resolution to the U.S. election have given way to the reality of an extended process, not only with regards to the White House but also the Senate,” said Ian Lyngen, a strategist at BMO Capital Markets. “Volatile price action can only be expected to persist for the time being, at least until the path forward becomes clearer.” These are some key events coming up: Lanhee Chen, director of domestic policy studies at the Hoover Institution, discusses the U.S. presidential election. Source: Bloomberg These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Cormac Mullen, Kamaron Leach, Dave Liedtka, Jeremy Herron, Kimberly Wayne, Claire Ballentine, and Gregor Stuart Hunter