We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. California reported the most Covid-19 cases since August, a day after joining Oregon and Washington in an appeal for arriving travelers to quarantine. States across the U.S. are tightening rules to stem the virus, which caused a record 190,000 infections on Friday as the federal government faces a stalled presidential transition. Washington Governor Jay Inslee is expected to announce a ban on indoor social gatherings and indoor restaurant dining, the Seattle Times said. Elon Musk said he “most likely” has a moderate case of Covid-19. South Korea’s daily case tally hit a 2-month high. Mexico’s cases crossed the 1 million mark. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Outbreaks have shot up in major European economies and in the U.S. Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control * Figures based on rolling 14-day total Washington Governor Jay Inslee is expected to announce a ban on indoor social gatherings and indoor restaurant dining Sunday morning, the Seattle Times reported, citing industry officials who were briefed on the new restrictions. The governor’s orders, aimed at combating a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, will also include a ban on indoor bar service and would limit the number retail customers allowed in a store at one time, including at groceries and convenience stores, to 25% of occupancy. The order is expected to extend for four weeks, the Times said. Mexico’s cases crossed the 1 million mark, and the country recorded 5,860 new infections. Mexico becomes the fourth Latin American nation -- after Brazil, Argentina and Colombia -- to reach that milestone. Brazil recorded the most weekly cases since early September, according to data on the Health Ministry’s website Saturday. Almost 259,000 infections were confirmed during the latest week, bringing the total to 5.85 million. Deaths increased by 4,552, the most in six weeks. The success of Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine trial could encourage more people to get inoculated, said top U.S. infectious disease doctor Anthony Fauci. The vaccine, developed in collaboration with Germany’s BioNTech SE, has “an extraordinarily high degree of efficacy -- more than 90%, close to 95%,” Fauci said in an interview. South Korea recorded 208 new coronavirus cases for the last 24 hours on Sunday, the country’s biggest daily gain since Sept. 1. The tally includes 176 local infections, with 81 new cases in Seoul. South Korea is among the countries battling new infections, after it had initial success containing Covid-19. The U.S. added at least 141,297 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the 10th consecutive day with more than 100,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. The count is likely to rise through the U.S. evening. A record 190,059 cases were counted on Friday. Billionaire Elon Musk tweeted that he “most likely” has a moderate case of the coronavirus, saying his symptoms were “that of a minor cold.” But the chief executive officer of Tesla Inc. and Space Exploration Technologies Corp. continued to cast doubt on testing accuracy, citing “wildly different results from different labs.” He didn’t mention any results from a PCR test -- more accurate than rapid tests. Missouri reported a record 6,346 cases, a day after health officials urged Governor Mike Parson to impose stricter measures to curb the virus. “We have to do that or we’re going to have a real crisis on our hands,” Steve Stites, chief medical officer at the University of Kansas Health System, was quoted as saying by the Kansas City Star. The Republican governor, who has resisted a statewide mask requirement, relaxed quarantine guidelines for students and educators on Thursday. Kansas City Mayor Quinton Lucas said on Friday he expected to tighten rules on restaurants and gatherings. Germany’s government is promoting compliance with lockdown rules in a video that likens people who stay home on their couch to war heroes. The dramatization shows an older man reminiscing about “the winter of 2020” when, as a young man, he would have been socializing and enjoying life. Instead, the “invisible threat” of the virus meant “the country’s fate was suddenly in our hands.” The video segues to the narrator as a young man, lying inertly on a sofa holding a TV remote. “Our couch was our front and patience was our weapon,” he says. “And thus we became heroes.” California added 9,875 cases, the biggest one-day increase since August, and reported 81 new deaths, bringing the total to 18,218. Cases in the state exceeded 1 million this week. The 14-day test positivity rate rose to 4.2%, a two-month high. Los Angeles County reported 3,780 confirmed new cases, the most since mid-July for a day that didn’t include a backlog of cases, according to the county health department. The elevated cases reflect increased testing, though the positivity rate “remains high at almost 6%,” the agency said in a statement. A fire in an intensive-care ward at a Romanian hospital killed 10 intubated Covid-19 patients and injured several others, including doctors and nurses, according to Health Minister Nelu Tataru. The cause of the fire in the northeastern town of Piatra Neamt hasn’t been determined. Virginia Governor Ralph Northam announced new restrictions as infections surged to record levels. Starting Sunday, the state will expand its mask mandate, lower its cap on gatherings to 25 individuals from 250, strengthen enforcement for distancing and other rules at retail businesses, and set a 10 p.m. alcohol service curfew for restaurants and bars. “More people are dying,” the Democrat and former Army doctor said in a video released Friday along with his office’s statement. “Face coverings are one of the best tools we have to fight Covid-19, so everyone needs to wear them, age 5 and up.” The seven-day average for new infections among the state’s 8.5 million residents rose by a record 1,546 on Thursday. Total confirmed cases breached 200,000 on Saturday. Inmates from the El Paso County jail in Texas are moving bodies of Covid-19 victims into refrigerated trucks as the outbreak overwhelms regular morgue staff, KTSM-TV reported. The broadcaster posted photos of inmates in black-and-gray striped jumpsuits outside the medical examiner’s office. The prisoners were “helping them there,” a sheriff’s spokesperson was quoted as saying. Minnesota reported a record 8,703 infections Saturday, as the state’s Covid-19 surge shows no signs of slowing. The seven-day average is now 5,868, compared with an average daily increase of 1,327 in the same period last month. Another 35 deaths were reported, just below the seven-day average of 36. That compares with a daily average of 11 in the same period last month. Hospitalizations have also soared. North Dakota broke another record for new infections, 2,278, the day after Governor Doug Burgum reversed course and imposed a statewide mask order and other anti-virus measures. The Republican governor, long reluctant to impose restrictions even as North Dakota became one of the hardest hit states, announced the mask mandate along with other measures Friday night in a video, noting that hospital capacity was straining and that the state had crossed the “tragic milestone” of 700 deaths. Hours were limited for bars and restaurants, capacity for events was reduced and winter sports were paused. As our COVID-19 situation changes, we must change with it. Tonight, we announced four measures designed to reduce the rampant spread of infections in our communities, protect our vulnerable, ensure hospital capacity and keep schools & the economy open. pic.twitter.com/Chrifpyedh Arizona reported 3,476 infections, the third time this week over 3,000 and the most since July. Hospitalizations have roughly doubled since the start of October, according to the Covid Tracking Project. New York reported 5,388 new infections, the second consecutive day over 5,000 -- the highest level since the peak of the outbreak in April. Governor Andrew Cuomo did not, however, indicate any move toward widespread restrictions. New York’s strategy has been to target hot spots for specific measures, and he suggested Saturday that would continue. “If those numbers go up we stand ready to tighten the valve,” he said in a call with reporters. The state’s overall positive-test rate rose to 2.92% from 2.65% the previous day, though he said that remains one of the lowest in the nation. Cuomo said earlier that an emergency summit will be held this weekend with governors of Northeastern states to address the surge in cases. New Jersey reported a record 4,395 daily cases. “These numbers are alarming and concerning, to say the least,” Governor Phil Murphy said on Twitter. Hospitalizations climbed to 2,000, with 370 patients in intensive care. New Jersey’s previous high was 4,391 in April. NEW JERSEY #COVID19 UPDATE:4,395 new positive cases274,736 cumulative total cases26 new confirmed deaths 14,747 total deaths These numbers are alarming and concerning, to say the least. Wear a mask. Social distance. Stay safe. Learn more: https://t.co/JW1q8awGh7 pic.twitter.com/Ydj7sl4fUO — With assistance by Karen Leigh, and Ian Fisher