We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. New York City public schools will begin reopening on Dec. 7 despite levels of Covid-19 that re-shuttered schools earlier this month, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced. Vaccines are likely to begin rolling out in the U.S. before the end of December, U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams and Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease specialist, said. The U.K. government said it hopes to begin its vaccination program before Christmas if regulators approve the shots in time, as expected. The premier of Germany’s most populous state said cases were falling too slowly, and Christmas celebrations could trigger a new flare up. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The U.K. has agreed to buy more than 350 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines Duke Global Health Innovation Center Chart excludes options for additional doses Mayor Bill de Blasio said New York City schools will begin the process of reopening on Dec. 7, despite the 3% positive test rate for Covid-19 he had set for closing the schools. He said the reopening would begin with pre-kindergarten classes through elementary school. Special education would begin three days later. He said the city “is just not ready” to begin opening middle and high schools. “There’s less concern about the spread when it comes to younger kids,” de Blasio said in a news conference. “And I feel for all our parents who are feeling so many challenges now.” He shut the schools on Nov. 19 after the city positive test rate rose above 3%, the level set earlier this year for shuttering schools again. Italy reported on Sunday 541 virus deaths on 20,648 new daily cases, in a declining trend compared with the previous day. The number of patients in intensive care units across the country continued to fall for the fourth day, while the total number of hospitalized patients fell for the sixth day. The U.K. reported new cases and deaths that were below the weekly averages as England plans to emerge from a monthlong lockdown on Wednesday. Another 12,155 infections were reported, below the average of more than 16,000 over the past seven days. Deaths rose by 215, less than half the weekly average of 487. Numbers are often lower on the weekends due to reporting delays. Hong Kong will require anyone at the site of three virus outbreaks in November to take a Covid-19 test, according to a statement on the government’s website. People subject to compulsory testing must report the results to the government by Dec. 6. Anyone who fails to comply may be fined up to HK$2,000. U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams said the federal government hopes to quickly review and approve requests from two drug makers for emergency approval of their Covid-19 vaccines. Pfizer Inc. is scheduled to submit an Emergency Use Authorization request on Dec. 10 for the vaccine it developed with Germany’s BioNTech, followed by Moderna on Dec. 18, Adams said. “We, from a federal perspective, have promised and set everything up so we can quickly review those EUAs and hopefully start sending out vaccines within 24 to 48 hours,” Adams said on “Fox News Sunday.” On ABC’s “This Week,” the top U.S. infectious diseases specialist Anthony Fauci said vaccines would likely roll out in the middle to end of December. He told Chuck Todd on NBC, however, that “it’s going to be months” for children and pregnant women because vaccine efficacy needs to be established. The premier of Germany’s most populous state said cases in the country were falling too slowly, and Christmas celebrations could trigger a new flare up. “So long as we don’t have the vaccine distributed, we need to be careful,” Armin Laschet, leader of the North Rhine-Westphalia region said in an interview with radio station Deutschlandfunk. Laschet also called on Germans not to go skiing this year, even if neighboring Austria decides to keep its resorts open. Mongolia extended its Covid-19 lockdown for 10 days through Dec. 11, according to a livestream on the government’s Facebook page. Authorities said that measures will be eased somewhat, with restrictions to remain in place at Ulaanbaatar and two provinces until 6 a.m. on Dec. 11. Alcohol will remain partially restricted during lockdown, prohibiting sales of beverages above 17% alcohol. The U.K. government hopes to begin rolling out vaccination program before Christmas if regulators arospprove the shots in time, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said. “We hope, subject to the regulatory approvals, to be in a position to be able to have rolled out the vaccine sufficiently by, say, the spring to enable us to have a big change in the way we approach things,” Raab told the BBC’s Andrew Marr show. Peter Openshaw, professor of experimental medicine at Imperial College London and a government adviser, said he would be “surprised” if a vaccine becomes available as soon as next week. An announcement that a vaccine has been approved for use could come within the next two weeks, he said. With Prime Minister Boris Johnson facing a political backlash over strict new coronavirus rules, Openshaw warned the government not to relax pandemic restrictions too soon. “if we take the brakes off at this stage, just when the end is in sight, I think we’ll be making a huge mistake,” he told the BBC Iran’s daily fatalities from Covid-19 fell for a third day to 389, the lowest single-day death toll in four weeks. The number of daily new cases fell to 12,950 overnight from 13,402 yesterday. The country now has 47,875 deaths in 948,749 known infections. An outbreak of bird flu has been confirmed at the turkey-fattening premises of a farm in Northallerton in North Yorkshire, Sky News reported. The farm’s 10,500 birds will be culled in an effort to limit the spread of the disease and an exclusion zone has been placed around the infected site, the news service said. A specialist unit of the British Army will be deployed to tackle anti-vaccine propaganda, as Britain prepares to deliver its first injections within days, the Sunday Times reports. Troops are analyzing how British citizens are being targeted online and are gathering evidence of vaccine disinformation from hostile states, including Russia, according to leaked documents seen by the newspaper. The U.K. has spent 80% more fighting coronavirus compared with the average of other G7 leading economies, according to research by the Financial Times. Britain is on course for a 90% deeper decline in economic output in 2020 and almost 60% more deaths. The Czech Republic will significantly ease its lockdown restrictions on Thursday after the spread of the coronavirus slowed in the past two weeks. The decision, approved at an extraordinary government meeting on Sunday, will allow shops and restaurants to reopen, although limits on the number of customers and opening hours will remain. The cabinet also agreed to scrap the nighttime curfew on Dec. 3. Poland registered 11,483 new infections in the last 24 hours, the least since Oct. 26, taking the total number of cases in the country of 38 million to 985,075, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. It also reported 283 new deaths, with total Covid-19 fatalities exceeding 17,000. The government, which shut all schools and reduced traffic in shops earlier this month, allowed shopping malls and furniture stores to reopen as of Nov. 28. Due to the worsening pandemic situation, Hong Kong authorities said they will halt in-person classes at all kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, including special needs schools and schools offering non-local curriculum, from Wednesday until the beginning the schools’ Christmas break. Hong Kong reported 115 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, 62 of which were linked to a cluster involving dance studios. There were 24 infections of unknown origin and six were imported, Department of Health official Chuang Shuk-kwan said at the daily Covid-19 briefing. Indonesia’s new coronavirus infections surged by the most since the outbreak began, with the Central Java province overtaking Jakarta in the increase in daily cases. The government confirmed 6,267 new cases in the 24 hours through midday Sunday, with Central Java accounting for a third of them. While Jakarta remains the virus hot spot with more than a quarter of the country’s confirmed cases, other provinces are starting to see more infections after many Indonesians traveled during a long weekend in October. The government is considering whether to cut short the year-end public holiday if officials can’t safely curb the spread. At a press conference, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said the government will maintain social-distancing rules in the greater Seoul area at level 2, which bans gatherings in high-risk facilities such as night clubs and karaoke bars, and prohibits restaurants from serving customers after 9 p.m. Outside the capital region, the restrictions will be raised to level 1.5 starting Tuesday. The higher level means eating and dancing at high-risk facilities will be barred, and restaurants and theaters will need to enforce distancing between tables and seats. The country’s daily new infections has climbed by more than 400 for four straight days. Russia reported 26,683 fresh coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, with the number declining for a second day. The new additions took the total to 2.269 million, according to data from the Russian government’s virus response center. In the past day, 459 people died of the disease, taking the total death toll to 39,527. Saudi Pharmaceutical Industries and Medical Appliances Corp. signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with German biotech company CureVac NV to provide a Covid-19 vaccine in Saudi Arabia. CureVac’s coronavirus vaccine showed a good immune response in early trials and its chief executive officer said advanced clinical trials are on track to start by year-end. A large number of South Australians are being urged to get a coronavirus test — even if they do not have symptoms — in the wake of an infected man leaving quarantine and visiting several shops and businesses in Adelaide last Sunday, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported. The man, in his 30s, is believed to have caught the virus through a casual contact at Flinders University. The governor of Colorado, where an estimated one in 41 of the state’s 5.7 million residents carried the Covid-19 virus over the past week, has tested positive and is resting at home. Governor Polis, an early advocate of masks, issued a statement Saturday night saying his partner was also infected. Earlier in the week, the governor of neighboring Wyoming tested positive. The country has intensified virus prevention measures around its border areas, strengthening protocols and monitoring of movements, KCNA reported Sunday. The government signed a deal for a further 2 million doses of Moderna Inc.’s vaccine candidate, bringing the total to 7 million for the U.K., according to a statement. The government said it has now secured 357 million vaccine doses from 7 different developers. Import applications from Chilean seafood producer Pesquera Isla Del Rey SA will be suspended for one week after a nucleic acid test on the packaging of a batch of frozen crab showed positive results for the pathogen, the General Administration of Customs said in a statement on its website on Saturday. China has been vocal about finding traces of the SARS-CoV-2 virus on packaging and food, raising fears that imported items are linked to recent resurgences. Beijing has ordered a range of precautionary steps, creating disruptions with its trading partners. City’s deputy sheriffs closed the nightclub early Saturday, New York Times reported. Four people were charged with various offenses including violation of city and state coronavirus emergency orders. San Francisco was moved to the most restrictive tier by California following a jump in coronavirus cases, prompting a slew of new measures across the city. “I don’t know how to be more clear -- this is the most dangerous time we’ve faced during this pandemic,” said Mayor London Breed. As cases continue to climb throughout California and the rest of the country, this advisory is even more important to follow.I don't know how to be more clear--this is the most dangerous time we've faced during this pandemic. Do not travel or gather with others. The new restrictions will kick off Sunday, starting with the closing of movie theaters, gyms, museums, zoos and aquariums, and even houses of worship. The capacity at indoor stores, including pharmacies, will be cut by half to 25%. Los Angeles, which imposed another stay-home order starting Monday, said the measures are less stringent than those issued in March despite a sudden case surge because face-wearing and social distancing have proven effective. The city has more coronavirus cases and deaths than any other U.S. county, with a five-day average of more than 4,500 new cases. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Katharina Rosskopf, Veronika Gulyas, Nikos Chrysoloras, Anirban Nag, Sara Marley, Daniele Lepido, Sotiris Nikas, Rudy Ruitenberg, Linus Chua, Deirdre Hipwell, Naomi Kresge, Angelina Rascouet, Hooyeon Kim, Vincent Del Giudice, Olga Tanas, Julia Fioretti, and Colin Keatinge