U.S. stocks were mixed in afternoon trading, with major averages still on track for the best week since April as jobs data topped expectations and Congress rekindled stimulus optimism. The S&P 500 fluctuated between gains and losses after a four-day rally added more than $1.5 trillion to the value of stocks. Technology again outperformed, sending the Nasdaq 100 briefly higher for a fifth straight day. It’s up almost 10% this week. Hiring outpaced expectations in October, defying calls for a slowdown in the economy as the virus continues to spread at a record pace. Investors remain focused on the outcome of the presidential election, where Joe Biden is widely expected to win a tight race. Democrats appear to have only a long-shot chance at Senate control, stoking expectation that any aid package will be thin and Biden won’t be able to roll back President Donald Trump’s tax cuts. Without a massive spending bill, the Federal Reserve may increase its monetary support to keep the economic recovery on track. “Fiscal stimulus should be supportive even if it is less than expected, and we still expect a vaccine to become widely available by the second quarter of next year,” said Mark Haefele, chief investment officer at UBS Global Wealth Management. Yields jumped after a report showed the labor market improved in October by more than forecast. Ten-year note yields climbed back above 0.80% and the dollar lingered at a more than two-year low. Votes are still being tallied in the U.S., with Biden tightening his hold on the race by taking the lead over Trump in Georgia and Pennsylvania.The president, however, questioned the credibility of the election, raising the prospect of a long stalemate as he challenges the results. “Markets have risen under a variety of political regimes, but where it seems to do the best is a period of divided government in Washington when you have limited prospects for sweeping changes in legislation that would affect very legislative sensitive industries,” said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief global investment strategist at Charles Schwab Corp. The U.S. became the first country to top 100,000 coronavirus infections in a single day. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell warned that mounting infection rates are a risk to the recovery. Meanwhile, France warned of a “violent” second wave as it joined European countries including Italy and Poland in reporting new highs in daily infections. Elsewhere, crude oil declined and gold was little changed. “Given the big rally that we’ve had over a couple days, it’s going to have to take a pause at some point,” said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Leuthold Group. These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Kamaron Leach, and Casey Wagner