Pfizer Inc.’s chief executive officer said its coronavirus vaccine reached a key safety milestone and the drugmaker is preparing to seek an emergency-use authorization, adding to signs of progress in efforts to halt the disease. Tokyo is set to raise its alert to the highest level while Japanese broadcaster FNN reported that a record 493 coronavirus cases were confirmed in the capital on Wednesday. South Australia imposed a six-day lockdown. More U.S. states imposed restrictions to tamp down an unrelenting surge in cases while Los Angeles County will impose new restrictions to fight a rapid increase in infections. New York’s hospitalizations increased by the most since the peak of the pandemic in April. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The U.S. gave the greenlight for the first Covid-19 diagnostic kit for self-testing at home, adding a tool to battle the pandemic as nationwide testing capabilities come under more strain. The Food and Drug Administration issued an emergency use authorization to Lucira Health Inc.’s rapid-result All-In-One Test Kit, according to a statementfrom the government agency Tuesday. While some Covid-19 tests allow people to provide samples from home, this is the first that can be fully self-administered and provide results at home in 30 minutes or less. Thailand’s Covid-19 task force has agreed to extend state of emergency rules through Jan. 15 to cover the new year period, which is expected to see increased travel. The rules allow the government to enforce mandatory quarantines and streamline disease-control plans without multiple approvals from various agencies. Confirmed coronavirus cases in India ticked up to 8.91 million as of Wednesday, with 38,617 new infections, according to government data. Virus-related deaths reached 130,993. India has the second-largest number of cases in the world, behind the U.S., and the third-most deaths, after the U.S. and Brazil. South Australia announced a six-day lockdown to help contain a growing cluster of Covid-19 infections in the state capital Adelaide. From midnight, schools, universities, cafes and restaurants will close, a stay-at-home order will be in force and mask wearing will be mandatory, authorities said. Twenty-two people in Adelaide have been infected after a cleaner at a quarantine hotel was exposed to the virus. Other Australian states and territories have reimposed border restrictions, deeming South Australia a virus hotspot. California’s Los Angeles County will impose new restrictions to fight a rapid surge in cases, and warned that it may bring back stay-at-home orders if the outbreak worsens. The home of 10 million residents will limit occupancy at non-essential businesses allowed to operate indoors -- including retail stores, offices and personal-care services -- at 25% capacity. Outdoor restaurants, wineries and breweries will be confined to 50% capacity, and must close from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. The area’s daily infections have more than doubled since the start of November, with a five-day average of 2,884 cases and more than 1,100 hospitalizations. The county will impose a “safer at home” order for three weeks if average cases surpass 4,500 or hospitalizations top 2,000 per day, the Department of Health said Tuesday. The world’s fourth most-populous nation, which is battling Southeast Asia’s worst coronavirus outbreak, is gearing for a massive vaccination program that the government wants to start as soon as next month. The government plans to kick off with an initial 3 million doses in December, prioritizing health workers, police, military and public servants, according to Budi Gunadi Sadikin, who leads the national economic recovery task force. Novavax Inc. is set to provide 30 million doses of its vaccine candidate, augmenting Indonesia’s supply of 85 million from China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. and 57.6 million of the locally produced Merah Putih. Indonesia doesn’t have any supply deals with Moderna Inc., Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE. South Korea reported 313 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, versus 230 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. That’s the highest number of newly confirmed cases in almost 12 weeks. Social distancing steps were raised in the greater Seoul area earlier in the week. Meanwhile, China reported eight new coronavirus cases on Tuesday while CCTV on Wednesday reported one confirmed coronavirus case and one asymptomatic case in the northern Chinese city of Tianjin. CCTV cited the city’s disease control authority. Boris Johnson’s government must have tough new measures in place to curb the spread of coronavirus between the end of England’s lockdown and the potential roll-out of a vaccine, doctors said. The British Medical Association warned on Wednesday that lifting lockdown on Dec. 2 without beefed-up regional restrictions risked a fresh surge in infections that would leave hospitals and family doctors “overwhelmed” and “unable to provide even the most critical of patient care.” National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins tells CNN he hopes to see most Americans immunized against Covid-19 by the summer of 2021 if vaccine candidates receive emergency use authorizations from the Food and Drug Administration. “The goal, the hope would be that by April we really start to see a lot of people getting immunized and certainly by the summer we would hope to have most of America actually immune to this and we could start to think about getting back to life as normal,” he said The Tokyo metropolitan government is preparing to raise the city’s alert level to its highest amid an increase in coronavirus cases in the capital, the Nikkei reported. The city is also considering asking stores to close early, a step it also imposed during a surge in cases during summer. The seven-day average of cases in Tokyo stands at almost 310, the highest since that spike in August. Sapporo, a city on the northern island of Hokkaido at the center of an increase in cases there, on Tuesday called for residents to stay home as much as possible. People wear masks in the Ginza district of Tokyo last week. The city is expected to raise its alert to the highest level. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg Iowa Senator Chuck Grassley, an 87-year-old in the line of succession to the presidency, announced Tuesday that he had tested positive for the coronavirus. Grassley reported the test results late in the day, after beginning a quarantine Tuesday morning following notification he had been exposed to the virus. On Monday, Grassley gave a speech on the Senate floor, without wearing a mask. Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker announced a series of new statewide restrictions that go into effect Nov. 20. Casinos and museums will close, gyms will cease indoor group classes, and bars and restaurants won’t offer indoor service. Retailers will reduce capacity to 25%. Pritzker also called for home gatherings to be limited to household members and for employees to work remotely when possible. The state’s hospitalizations from the virus have reached a record, while daily cases on Tuesday rose to 12,601 from 11,632, according to the Illinois Department of Public Health. The seven-day Covid-19 case positivity rate of all tests is 12.5%. Almost 200 new virus patients were admitted to Texas hospitals in the last 24 hours. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Bloomberg Houston canceled its annual Thanksgiving Day parade and the highest-ranking county official urged residents to call off large celebratory gatherings as hospitalizations soar. Almost 200 new virus patients were admitted to Texas hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the census to 7,468, a 22% surge in the past week, state health department figures showed. In the nine-county Houston metro area, virus hospitalizations jumped 44% in the past two weeks to 749, the highest since Aug. 26, according to the SouthEast Texas Regional Advisory Council. Coronavirus hospitalizations in New York have topped 2,000, the highest since early June, Governor Andrew Cuomo announced Tuesday. Of the nearly 160,000 tests conducted statewide on Monday, 3.18%, or 5,088 were positive, according to state data. Hospitalizations increased by 156 to 2,124, the largest one-day jump since the peak of the pandemic in April. There were 29 virus-related deaths on Monday. Cases continued to increase in hot spot areas of the state including Queens, Brooklyn, Rockland and Westchester counties, Western New York, the Finger Lakes, Central New York, and counties that border Pennsylvania. A Covid-19 testing site in New York last Wednesday. Cases continued to increase in hot spot areas of the state. Photographer: Kena Betancur/AFP/Getty Images Ohio Governor Mike DeWine is imposing a curfew starting at 10 p.m. Nov. 19, clamping down on retail establishments in a bid to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the state. The curfew will run from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. each day for 21 days, the Republican governor announced Tuesday in one of his regularly scheduled briefings. “We know that if we reduce the number of people we come in contact every day with, we reduce the chances of getting the virus,” DeWine said. Unlike last spring, “we’re not talking about closing any businesses as we did then, but what we are asking every Ohioan to do is limit your contact.” — With assistance by Brett Miller, Seyoon Kim, Rachel Chang, Max Reyes, Emily Ashton, Kazunori Takada, Gearoid Reidy, Go Onomitsu, Jeff Sutherland, Ed Johnson, Kara Wetzel, Arys Aditya, Claire Jiao, Devidutta Tripathy, Suttinee Yuvejwattana, Randy Thanthong-Knight, Jinshan Hong, and Emma Court