Another President Donald Trump event left supporters in the cold. Democratic nominee Joe Biden is ahead by 7 percentage points in one of the last polls in the key state of Pennsylvania. And a boy who bonded with Biden over their stutters narrates one of the Democratic nominee’s final campaign ads. There is one day until Election Day and 42 days until the Electoral College meets. Other Developments: Trump’s barnstorming again left some of his supporters exposed to the elements. On Sunday, supporters at a rally in Rome, Georgia, waited hours for buses to take them to their cars because only a narrow road was available. A Trump campaign spokesman tweeted that “buses ran smoothly,” that heating tents and hand warmers were available and that all 15,000 attendees were clear of the site in less than two hours. “Folks at the outdoor rally had a blast and left safely,” tweeted spokesman Tim Murtaugh. Trump supporters were also left waiting after rallies in Omaha, Nebraska, on Tuesday and Pittsburgh on Saturday, while several were treated for heat exhaustion at a Tampa, Florida, rally on Thursday. Biden has a 7-point lead in his home state of Pennsylvania in one of the final pre-election polls. A Monmouth University Poll released Monday found 51% of likely voters backed Biden and 44% supported Trump in a high-turnout election. With more than 2.4 million early votes already cast, pollsters say higher-than-normal turnout is very likely. Biden has led in nearly every poll in Pennsylvania in September and October, and the RealClearPolitics average of polls showed him ahead by 4.3 percentage points before the Monmouth poll came out. Biden was born in Pennsylvania but moved to Delaware as a child. Biden and running mate Kamala Harris will visit Pennsylvania for last-minute get-out-the-vote events, including appearances by Lady Gaga and John Legend. Trump will also hold an election-eve rally in Biden’s birthplace of Scranton. The Monmouth poll of 502 registered voters in Pennsylvania was conducted Oct. 28-Nov. 1. It has a margin of error of plus-or-minus 4.4 percentage points. A boy who bonded with Biden over stuttering is the narrator of one of the Democratic challenger’s final ads. With the Biden campaign pushing positive, feel-good spots in the last hours of the race, “Never Underestimate” features 13-year-old Brayden Harrington. Harrington, who met Biden at a campaign event in February, spoke at the Democratic National Convention in August about how he was inspired by Biden’s own work to overcome a childhood stutter. A video of his speech shared on Twitter was viewed more than 12 million times. In the ad, Harrington says that Biden “has always believed anyone can do great things.” “Just know, Joe’s in your corner,” he says. “Mine too. He’ll never underestimate you. He’ll never underestimate a teacher, never underestimate a nurse, never underestimate a soldier.” A video of the ad shared on Twitter had been viewed nearly a million times Monday morning. The Biden campaign had Brayden Harrington, the boy who bonded with Joe over stuttering, record a closing campaign ad and now I am crying pic.twitter.com/MOmlXvg5tj In the closing days of the 2016 election, Trump’s normally voluble Twitter feed became suddenly restrained. This time? Not so much. In 26 tweets in the final three days of his previous campaign, Trump mostly offered thanks to various battleground states and links to favorable opinion pieces. On Sunday alone, Trump tweeted 49 times. He claimed that Biden “is the candidate of rioters, looters, arsonists, gun-grabbers, flag-burners, Marxists, lobbyists, and special interests.” He referred to Biden’s “47 years of treachery and betrayal.” Joe Biden is the candidate of rioters, looters, arsonists, gun-grabbers, flag-burners, Marxists, lobbyists, and special interests. I am the candidate of farmers, factory workers, police officers, and hard-working, law-abiding patriots of every race, religion and creed! #MAGA He said “the Radical Left is going down,” referred to himself as “your all time favorite President,” claimed Biden would “indoctrinate your children with Anti-American lies,” and attacked Fox News host Chris Wallace. And he referred to a group of drivers who surrounded a Biden campaign bus in Texas as “patriots,” saying they did nothing wrong. While Pennsylvania may not finish counting ballots until Friday, North Carolina aims to be done more quickly. The State Board of Elections said Sunday that it expects at least 97% of all ballots cast in the battleground state to be counted and reported Tuesday night, according to the Charlotte Observer. More than 4.5 million North Carolina voters have already cast a ballot, 95% of the state’s total 2016 turnout. The vast majority did so via early voting, which means those results can be tallied quickly once the polls close. Still, if the race is tight, it may take a few days to identify a definitive winner, as the state will accept mail-in ballots until Nov. 12, as long as they have an Election Day postmark. And it very well may be close. Biden is currently ahead by about a third of a percentage point in North Carolina in the RealClearPolitics polling average. Trump will hold rallies in Fayetteville, North Carolina; Scranton, Pennsylvania; Traverse City, Michigan; Kenosha, Wisconsin; and Grand Rapids, Michigan on Monday. Biden will be barnstorming Pennsylvania.