Bike thefts in Paris have jumped this year as more people opted for cycling over public transit. Photographer: Samuel Boivin/NurPhoto via Getty Images Photographer: Samuel Boivin/NurPhoto via Getty Images At 11:57 a.m. on Oct. 29, Lucas Renaudin was working in his office in northeastern Paris. It was at that moment his metallic gray Aventon Córdoba fixed-gear bike was being stolen from the building’s bike storage facility, he learned after reviewing security camera footage. “At first I didn't think it was a robbery but rather a bad joke,” says Renaudin, a 20-year-old work-study business student. “But then I was so angry.”Earlier that month, Céline Libert, a 29-year-old business consultant who lives in the same area of the French capital, had thieves break into her courtyard, cutting the lock around her second-hand Decathlon bike and taking it just days after she had bought it. Journalist Pauline Chambost, 30, had her bike, a 10th birthday present, disappear in July, just a month after bringing it from her parents’ house in the south of France. Clélia Timsit, a 30-year-old management consultant, says she’s had three stolen since last year, most recently when thieves dismantled the scaffolding the bike had been attached to. “I had bought a special lock to make sure the bike wouldn't be stolen,” she says. “Bad luck.” The common denominator? All of the rides were summarily snatched from an infamous district in the 19th arrondissement of Paris that stretches along the Ourcq canal and between the Stalingrad, Jaurès and Riquet metro stations. Locals have dubbed the area the “Bermuda Triangle of Stolen Bikes.” Evidence testament to this thriving underworld of two-wheeled crime is ubiquitous here: Single bike wheels hang from posts in solitude; otherwise functional bikes eerily lack their saddles; and rusting metal frames have been stripped to the bone of valuable parts as though devoured by urban piranha. “This is the worst place for bikes,” says Renaudin. “The mafia networks are organized to steal them. With everyone currently riding bikes in Paris, it’s become a simple and easy way for thieves to make a lot of money.” Many of the stolen bikes end up on black markets across northern Paris and on unregulated listings websites, where some sellers post photos of large stocks of bikes at their homes, but a recent investigation by French newspaper Le Parisien involving a hidden GPS tracker found dozens packaged up and ready to be shipped to north Africa and eastern Europe, suggesting organized criminal networks are making a buck too. As with many cities across the world, cycling is now all the rage in Paris with the coronavirus pandemic seeing commuters shun public transport in favor of two wheels. Thanks to the city’s addition of 50 kilometers of cycling paths — as part of more than 500 kilometers of provisional routes added across France known as “coronapistes” — and the arrival of a new generation of cheaper and lighter electric bikes, usage has rocketed. By September, a record 187,000 daily trips were being made on the municipal bike-sharing system  Vélib’. With the increasing number of bikes on the boulevards of Paris has come a spike in thefts. Paris police recorded just under 5,000 bicycles stolen in the capital from January through September, an increase of 62% compared with last year. But many aren’t reported and the real figures are likely to be far higher. Similar steep climbs in thefts have been observed in cities around the world. The number of bicycles reported stolen in New York City from March through mid-September was 4,477 — a 27% increase compared to the same period last year. In London, there were 3,079 bikes reported stolen in September — a 50% rise from the 2,004 recorded in the same month a year earlier. Those crimes may influence cycling’s post-pandemic future. According to a study published in September by the French research institute 6t, one in three cyclists have had a bicycle stolen at least once in their life. The research, based on a survey of 4,000 adults living in French cities with populations of at least 200,000, found that 8% of victims had stopped cycling due to thefts and 60% of victims said they now ride less because of it. “Thefts could block the progression of cycling in Paris,” says Camille Hanuise, director of Paris en Selle, a nonprofit working on the development of cycling in Greater Paris. “It will make debutants hesitate because of the feeling of not being in security. What’s more, when cyclists do go to the police they often aren’t reassured by the action, or lack of it, taken by authorities.” Within the limits of the “Bermuda Triangle of Stolen Bikes,” the sense of insecurity is particularly high. The gentrifying neighborhood has seen a clash between middle-class residents who increasingly opt to cycle and a significant number of drug addicts, needing to fund their habit, who occupy several nearby spots like the Battle of Stalingrad Square and the Garden of Éole. “There is a real drug problem in the district, which explains the increase in thefts,” says Libert, one of the victims. “I will never buy new bikes again. I never managed to keep one for more than a few months. It’s super frustrating.” David Belliard, deputy mayor for transport for Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo, says the thefts happen all across the city, not just in the troubled northeast. “There’s no place that isn’t affected by them,” he says. “It’s a serious problem over all of the arrondissements. What we need and what we plan to do is invest more in infrastructure, parking stations, and promote a welcoming culture of cycling in Paris.” Belliard says research by the municipality has found there are 500,000 bikes in the capital and only 40,000 secured spots, but points to three city initiatives underway aimed at improving security: large parking stations constructed at the Gare de Lyon and Montparnasse that can house hundreds of bikes, 50 small “veloboxes” that provide street-level protection for a monthly subscription, and citywide collaboration with developers to create secure spaces inside buildings and courtyards. Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, minister for transport, said in an emailed statement that there will be a review of the obligations imposed on builders — including housing, commercial and industrial buildings, shopping malls and cinemas — to provide secure bicycle parking spaces in new buildings and that a decree will soon be published setting a minimum number of bicycle spaces at train stations. Under a decree passed by the Council of the State last week, another key policy to counter the business of thefts is that from Jan.  1, 2021 all new bicycles — with the exception of children’s models — sold by a retailer in France must be marked with a unique number registered in a national file. “The objective is to set up a uniform system with a common database easily accessible by law enforcement,” the Paris police said in a statement. “This means identification of a bike will be easier. The system should have a dissuasive effect by making it more difficult to hide the origins of a stolen cycle.” But while Olivier Schneider, president of the French Cyclists Federation, believes that the marking system will reduce sales of stolen bikes over time, he says there are solutions to tackle bike theft that could be implemented but haven’t. “In Germany, the police put GPS trackers on bikes,” he says. “French police can’t do it. It’s not legal for them. But to really track all the criminal networks, this is needed.” Schneider also says that a centralized system for stolen bikes that are retrieved — which total around 100,000 bikes each year, a quarter of those stolen — should be established. “If my bike is stolen in Brittany but found in Paris there’s no way of tracing it,” he says. “Police forces put photos of them up on regional websites that nobody looks at and most of them just stay untouched in a warehouse somewhere.” In the meantime, Schneider’s advice to cyclists is: Avoid quick-release hubs or seat clamps on your bike (which makes wheels or saddles easier to steal), invest in a good lock (preferably a U-shaped lock at least 10 millimeters thick), don’t buy a bike if you’re unsure of its origin (as you may be contributing to the black market), prepare a bike identity card (including brand, model, serial number and color) and consider the use of a GPS tracker (the company Invoxia’s tracker, for example, can send out alerts if the bike leaves a specific geofenced zone). Failing that, he says, you could be among the tiny lucky percentage of cyclists that do successfully recover their stolen bikes — like Ghizlaine Siraoui. After his 1,500-euro ($1,800) Italian bike disappeared on Sept. 30, the 32-year-old engineer took to Facebook in order to crowdsource his efforts. “To my amazement, an hour later people found an advert for it being sold for 350 euros,” he says. “So I made an appointment with the seller the next afternoon.” Siraoui, stuck in quarantine, recruited the help of neighbors to process the complaint at the local police station. “An hour before the meeting a team of four people from the BAC [France’s anti-crime unit] and one of my neighbors go to the agreed place,” he says. “When the time came, I spoke with the individual on the phone and gave the details to the police. A few moments later, the individual was arrested, and the next day my bike was recovered.”