The founders of Sinch AB, a cloud-based platform provider in Sweden that’s seen its stock surge 290% this year, are selling down their stakes and issuing new shares in a transaction that is set to hand SoftBank Group Corp. about a 10th of the company. The group of owners wants to sell 5.2 million shares in Stockholm-based Sinch, according to a statement late on Monday. The price being targeted is about 4.7 billion kronor ($550 million). The company has also hired banks to look into doing a directed issue of about 3.2 million new shares, through an accelerated book building process in which SoftBank will also participate. Sinch has seen its fortunes transformed this year, turning it into the best performing company on the Stoxx 600 index as users flocked to its services during the pandemic. It’s one of a number of tech firms to have thrived during lockdowns as consumers relied more than ever on virtual communication to stay in touch with their employers, friends and families. As of Monday’s close, Sinch had a market value of about 66.2 billion kronor, or $7.7 billion. SoftBank, through a unit called SB Management, plans to buy 1.2 million shares at the bookbuilding price, provided it doesn’t have to pay more than a pre-agreed discount relative to the Nov. 30 price. It’s also agreed to buy the 5.2 million shares being sold by the co-founders. The sellers are Cantaloupe AB, which is owned by Sinch co-founders Robert Gerstmann, Henrik Sandell, Kristian Mannik, as well as Bjorn Zethraeus, and Salvis Investment Limited, which is owned by another co-founder, Johan Hedberg. Erik Froberg and Neqst D1 AB are also selling, according to Monday’s statement. In connection with the sell-down, Cantaloupe’s and Neqst D1’s stakes will be consolidated into Neqst D2 AB, which will become the largest shareholder in Sinch. Sinch has mandated Carnegie and Handelsbanken Capital Markets as joint bookrunners to evaluate the conditions for carrying out the share issue. To view the source of this information click here