Bet against the rand at your peril. The one-year rand-dollar basis-swap spread, which reflects the cost of borrowing the South African currency in the local market to buy greenbacks, climbed to a record 104 basis points this week. That suggests banks are flush with dollars following large inflows from sovereign loans and corporate deals, while a decline in imports reduced demand for the U.S. currency. The rand has climbed 10% against the dollar this quarter, wiping out losses sparked by the coronavirus pandemic and making it the emerging world’s best performer after Mexico’s peso, even after Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings dumped the country deeper into junk as its fiscal challenges mount. The currency is well into overbought territory, according to its relative strength index, but the rally may be hard to resist. “As much as rand outperformance seems stretched, trying to buck the trend has been expensive,” Matete Thulare, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Rand Merchant Bank, wrote in a client note. “The cost of shorting the rand continues to increase.” There are other factors suggesting the rand may extend gains. The record selloff in South African government bonds, fueled by the country’s slide deeper into junk ratings and exclusion from key indexes tracking investment-grade debt, appears to be stabilizing. Foreign investors are net buyers of debt to the tune of 17.9 billion rand ($1.18 billion) this month, paring outflows for the year to 56 billion rand. The exodus has reduced the share of the debt held by non-residents to 29%, the lowest since 2011 -- months before South Africa was included in the FTSE World Government Bond Index. That means forced selling sparked by the exclusion from that gauge in March has run its course, lifting a substantial weight from the rand and making it less vulnerable to external shocks. In addition to rand-supportive portfolio inflows, South Africa’s trade surplus has surged to 174 billion rand in the first nine months of this year, compared with 27 billion rand for the whole 2019. That’s because of muted imports during the coronavirus pandemic and rising metal prices, South Africa’s major source of export earnings. A dwindling current-account deficit will ease pressure on the rand.