South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham fended off a well-funded challenge from Democrat Jaime Harrison Tuesday, while Democrat John Hickenlooper defeated GOP incumbent Cory Gardner in the first Senate seat to flip parties among the roughly dozen that will determine control of the chamber next year. Graham’s race was rated as a tossup by independent analysts, and his victory narrows Democrats’ chances of regaining a solid Senate majority after six years of GOP control. [MAP: Follow live U.S. Senate election results here] Graham had staked his political career on supporting President Donald Trump and on delivering another conservative jurist, Judge Amy Coney Barrett, to the high court. That proved to be a winning strategy in a conservative state that Trump won handily. Gardner was one of two GOP incumbents representing states won by Hillary Clinton in 2016, which made him one of the prime targets for Democrats this year. Hickenlooper, the state’s former governor, led throughout the campaign despite some initial stumbles. John Hickenlooper Photographer: David Zalubowski/AP Photo Some of the other competitive Senate races, including Maine, North Carolina, Iowa and Arizona, remained unsettled.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell won re-election to a seventh term and now waits for the outcome of those races to find out whether he’ll retain his title when the new Congress convenes in January. He handily defeated former Marine pilot Amy McGrath, whose campaign was lavished with money from Democrats across the country. Democrats missed in two other longshot bids to flip Republican seats. In Texas, incumbent Republican John Cornyn defeated Air Force combat veteran MJ Hegar. Republican Roger Marshall won the open Kansas Senate seat, defeating a well-funded Barbara Bollier in a race Democrats had hopes of winning if there was a wave election. As expected, Democrats lost a Senate seat in heavily Republican Alabama that had been held by Doug Jones, who was defeated by former college football coach Tommy Tuberville. The final outcome of the battle for the Senate might not be known for days while votes are tallied -- or even months if control of the chamber hinges on the January runoff for a Georgia Senate seat. Mitch McConnell speaks at an election night party in Louisville, Kentucky on Nov. 3. Photographer: Scotty Perry/Bloomberg President Donald Trump’s sagging performance at the top of the GOP ticket going into election night, the shift of suburban voters -- particularly women -- toward Democrats and the impact of a still-raging coronavirus pandemic has produced a roller coaster political year that greatly expanded the number of endangered Senate Republicans. That’s also spurred record-shattering fundraising and spending on congressional races. The non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics projects total spending will hit $7.2 billion by the time it’s all counted, well above the previous high for congressional campaign spending of $4.1 billion for the 2016 election. Republicans now hold a 53-47 Senate majority, but they were defending 23 of the 35 seats on Tuesday’s ballots. Based on polls and independent analysts, Democrats had been favored to gain a majority, though the size of their advantage depends heavily on the presidential contest between Trump and Democrat Joe Biden. Many of the presidential battlegrounds also are pivotal in the contest for Senate control, including North Carolina, Georgia, Iowa, Colorado and Arizona. Democrats retook control of the House with a 41-seat gain in 2018. They now hold a 232 to 197 advantage over Republicans, with one independent and five vacancies. Most independent political analysts forecast Democrats will add more seats to their column, even if several vulnerable members lose on Tuesday. But the amount of their gain appeared to be on the low end of forecasts, leaving them with a potential addition of five seats. Lindsey Graham Photographer: Micah Green/Bloomberg Several incumbent senators were re-elected, with many of those races not much in doubt. Democratic Senator Mark Warner was easily re-elected to a third term in Virginia and Republican Shelley Moore Capito won a second term in West Virginia, according to Associated Press projections. Incumbent Democrats Edward Markey in Massachusetts, Jeanne Shaheen in New Hampshire, Jack Reed in Rhode Island, Chris Coons in Delaware and Dick Durbin in Illinois also won re-election. Along With McConnell and Capito, Republican James Inhoff won re-election in Oklahoma. In Tennessee, Republican Bill Hagerty won the seat being vacated by Republican Senator Lamar Alexander, who is retiring. South Dakota Republican Mike Rounds and Nebraska Republican Ben Sasse also were re-elected. In Wyoming, Republican Cynthia Lummis won election to the seat now held by Mike Enzi, who is retiring. Besides Gardner, the other major targets for Democrats are GOP Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Martha McSally in Arizona, both of whom have trailed their challengers consistently in public polls and fundraising. Collins is the other Republican incumbent running in a state won by Clinton in 2016 but she was holding on to a lead in early returns. McSally lost in 2018 to Kyrsten Sinema before she was appointed to the seat once held by John McCain and was trailing former astronaut Mark Kelly with the first votes counted. North Carolina’s Thom Tillis is another vulnerable GOP incumbent who has been outspent by his Democratic challenger, Cal Cunningham. The North Carolina Senate race is already the most expensive congressional race of all time, with $265 million spent by the candidates and other groups, according Center for Responsive Politics numbers. The two were neck and neck in incomplete returns. The Iowa race between GOP Senator Joni Ernst and Democrat Theresa Greenfield is the second most-expensive ever, with $218 million in total spending. Theresa Greenfield Photographer: Rachel Mummey/Bloomberg In Georgia, one of the state’s two Senate races is heading to a January runoff. Senator Kelly Loeffler, who was appointed by the governor, will face off against Democrat in the race is Raphael Warnock, senior pastor of the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta. In the other contest, Republican incumbent David Perdue was leading Democratic challenger Jon Ossoff, who narrowly lost an Atlanta-area House special election in 2017. — With assistance by Mike Dorning, Daniel Flatley, and Josyana Joshua