Moderna Inc. requested clearance for its coronavirus vaccine in the U.S. after a new analysis showed it was highly effective in preventing Covid-19, with no serious safety problems. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the U.S. economy remains damaged, though recent news on the vaccine front “is very positive for the medium term.” A U.S. official has been summoned to the White House to justify why he hasn’t moved faster to approve the Pfizer vaccine, Axios reported. A CDC study indicated the virus may have been in the U.S. by mid-December 2019. Hong Kong tightened restrictions on public gatherings and sent civil servants back to work-from-home arrangements. California is considering a return to stay-at-home orders, with cases soaring in the state. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID The Philippines is looking at subsidizing coronavirus tests for tourists to boost its pandemic-battered tourism industry that’s gradually reopening to domestic travelers, Tourism Secretary Bernadette Romulo-Puyat said in an interview with ABS-CBN News Channel on Tuesday. Travel vouchers for the subsidized tests from state-run Philippine General Hospital in Manila will be given to tourists, she said, without elaborating who can qualify. Scientists at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found evidence of Covid infection in blood donations collected by the American Red Cross from residents in nine U.S. states between Dec. 13, 2019, and Jan. 17, 2020, according to a study published online in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases. A small percentage of blood donations from the states of California, Oregon and Washington showed antibodies as early as Dec. 13-16, 2019, according to the study. “The findings of this report suggest that SARS-CoV-2 infections may have been present in the U.S. in December 2019, earlier than previously recognized,” the paper said. Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Stephen Hahn has been summoned to a meeting by White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows to explain why he hasn’t moved faster to approve the Pfizer coronavirus vaccine, Axios reported, citing two senior administration officials. The meeting is set for Tuesday at 9:30 a.m. in Washington, Axios said. The Axios report continued: “The meeting is shaping up to be tense, with Hahn using what the White House will likely view as kamikaze language in a preemptive statement to Axios: ‘Let me be clear — our career scientists have to make the decision and they will take the time that’s needed to make the right call on this important decision.’” Anies Baswedan, governor of Indonesia’s capital Jakarta, tested positive for coronavirus and is undergoing self-isolation, though is asymptomatic, according to his office in a statement Tuesday. He had dismissed the mayor of Central Jakarta earlier for failing to enforce social-distancing measures. Jakarta remains the epicenter of the local outbreak, accounting for a third of Indonesia’s more than half a million confirmed cases. Vice President Mike Pence told governors on Monday that distribution of a coronavirus vaccine could begin by the third week of December, signaling U.S. regulators will swiftly approve an emergency authorization for the first shots. White House coronavirus adviser Scott Atlas, who won President Donald Trump’s favor by advocating the loosening of social distancing restrictions during the pandemic, resigned his post on Monday, according to a White House official. His departure closes a controversial tenure in which the neuroradiologist without a background in infectious disease prevention or public health drew the ire of other members of the coronavirus task force for urging the president to abandon lockdowns, describing such efforts as harmful to Americans. Hong Kong has set up a hotline for the public to report suspected violations of social distancing orders on private yachts, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said at a briefing. Enforcement authorities will also step up scrutiny of junk boat parties. Texas’s virus hospitalizations rose to 8,900, the third straight daily increase and the highest since Aug. 1, when the state’s initial outbreak was still raging. About 14% of hospital beds in the second-largest U.S. state are occupied by Covid-19 patients, according to state health department data. In cities such as El Paso and Amarillo, more than one-third of hospital capacity is taken by virus cases. Moderna Inc. requested clearance for its coronavirus vaccine in the U.S. after a new analysis showed the vaccine was highly effective in preventing Covid-19, with no serious safety problems. A Moderna spokesman said in a text message late afternoon Monday that its application for an emergency-use authorization for its Covid shot had been delivered to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Earlier, the company had said in a statement it would seek clearance on Monday in both the U.S. and Europe. Covid-19 testing in San Francisco, Nov. 30. Hospitalizations are expected to double or triple by Christmas. Photographer: David Odisho/Bloomberg California is considering a return to stay-at-home orders as hospitalizations from the coronavirus soar, with projections showing that intensive-care demand will exceed capacity in the next month. Hospitalizations, already nearing a July record, are expected to double or triple by Christmas, Governor Gavin Newsom said at a briefing Monday. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell is cautioning lawmakers that the U.S. economy remains in a damaged and uncertain state, despite progress made in the development of Covid-19 vaccines. “Recent news on the vaccine front is very positive for the medium term,” Powell said in testimony released Monday ahead of a Tuesday hearing before the Senate Banking Committee. “For now, significant challenges and uncertainties remain, including timing, production and distribution, and efficacy across different groups.” Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has tested positive for Covid-19. Plenkovic is at home and feeling fine, his spokesman said by phone. Plenkovic has been in isolation since Saturday, when his wife tested positive for the virus. His initial test came back negative. Andrej Plenkovic Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg France added 4,005 new cases on Monday, the fewest since the end of August. The number of patients in intensive care continued to decline from a peak two weeks ago while total hospitalizations resumed their decline after an uptick on Sunday. Deaths linked to the virus rose by 406 to 52,731. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced a nationwide weekday curfew starting at 9 p.m. and ending at 5 a.m. as the country copes with about 30,000 new cases per day. On the weekend, the curfew is stricter, running from 9 p.m. Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday. The curfews are part of a slate of new restrictions on movement and commercial activity. “We’re trying to find methods that protect the people’s health and also allow the continuation of production, commerce, employment and social life,” Erdogan said Monday, speaking after a weekly cabinet meeting. The World Health Organization said that governments need to take a risk-management approach to all activities that involve people congregating, including skiing, as winter approaches. “The real issues are at airports, on buses to and from ski resorts, ski lifts -- pinch points where people come together in large numbers,” said Mike Ryan, head of WHO’s emergencies program. WHO is doing everything it can to find the origin of the coronavirus, despite attempts by some to politicize the process, Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a media briefing Monday. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus Photographer: Stefan Wermuth/Bloomberg “We’ll start the study from Wuhan, know what happened there and then based on the findings we have there see if there are other avenues that we have to explore,” Tedros said. “There’s nothing to hide. We want to know the origin.” New York is focusing on the growing number of coronavirus-related hospitalizations as cases continue to rise statewide, Governor Andrew Cuomo said. He suspended elective surgery in Erie County, home to Buffalo, starting Friday. “We are now worried about overwhelming the hospital system,” he said. “Literally every region is dealing with a hospital issue now.” Starting Monday, hospitals must identify retired nurses and doctors in case of shortages, Cuomo said. The state also is requiring hospitals to balance their loads, shifting patients across the system, so one hospital isn’t overwhelmed, he said. New York is also looking to prepare field hospitals if needed, is calling on hospitals to plan to add 50% bed capacity, and is confirming that personal protective equipment is stockpiled. Italy decided to ease restrictions for Milan and Turin last Friday. Photographer: Alessia Pierdomenico/Bloomberg Italy’s new virus cases on Monday were the lowest in five weeks. The country reported 16,377 daily cases, compared with 20,648 on Sunday. The country’s total virus deaths surpassed 55,000 on Monday, with 672 daily fatalities, compared with 541 the day before. Last Friday Italy’s government decided to ease restrictions for financial capital Milan and for industrial hub Turin, following a steady reduction in the number of coronavirus cases in the last few days. New York City’s positive Covid-19 test rate has climbed to 4.03%, based on a seven-day average. The daily test rate was 4.69%, which was skewed by lower testing numbers, Mayor Bill de Blasio said Monday at a press briefing. De Blasio also announced that in-person viewing of the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree, a huge tourist draw, will be controlled to allow for social distancing. There will be a reservation system, limited viewing entrances and five-minute viewing limits, starting Dec. 3. The mayor closed public schools earlier in November when the average positive test rate hit 3%. New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy will toughen the limit on outdoor gatherings to 25 people from 150 and halt indoor high school sports for the rest of 2020 after reporting more than 28,000 new Covid-19 cases in the past week, according to a person familiar with the decision. Murphy will announce the moves today at a press conference, according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity ahead of the announcement. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte extended the existing movement restrictions in the capital region through year-end, while keeping most of the country under the most lenient status. Plastic partition divide seats inside a Jeepney in Manila, Oct. 30. Photographer: Richard James Mendoza/NurPhoto/Getty Images The capital Metro Manila and Davao City, which is the main economic center on the island of Mindanao, are among the few areas placed under the so-called general community quarantine status, Duterte said in a televised briefing on Monday. Metro Manila’s mayors earlier agreed to shorten the curfew by an hour to 12 a.m. to 3 a.m. Malaysia will extend its movement control order on Top Glove Corp.’s worker dormitories in Klang for 14 days because of rising coronavirus cases. The order had been due to end Monday. The government last week ordered Top Glove to close 28 of its factories in phases, after its Klang facility recorded 1,067 Covid-19 cases out of 1,884 new daily cases in Malaysia. The curbs have pared the meteoric rise in the shares of the world’s biggest rubber-glove producer. The stock tumbled 17% this month, the steepest drop since January 2016. — With assistance by Dan Reichl, Joe Carroll, Justin Sink, Josh Wingrove, and Max Zimmerman