Photographer: Jeff Pachoud/AFP/Getty Images Photographer: Jeff Pachoud/AFP/Getty Images We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The pandemic shows no signs of slowing, with worldwide infections surpassing 50 million. Cases in the U.S. topped 100,000 for a fourth day, bringing the nation’s total close to the 10 million mark. U.S. President-elect Joe Biden will speak Monday on his strategy to “beat Covid 19,” with plans to appoint a 12-member coronavirus task force. Utah, facing overcrowded hospitals, issued a state of emergency and ordered a mask mandate. Germany has more severe Covid patients than at any point since the pandemic began, underscoring the urgency facing authorities to contain the disease. China will disinfect all overseas shipments of cold-chain products, after contaminated pork and seafood were implicated in the infection of port workers. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. France aims to carry out antigen tests for departing and arriving passengers at Roissy airport beginning Wednesday, Transport Minister Jean-Baptiste Djebbari said in an interview on Radio Classique. Currently, Roissy authorities are carrying out around 1,000 tests a day. Authorities have targeted countries where virus circulation is most intense and where testing isn’t carried out for departing travelers. Germany has more severe Covid-19 patients than at any point since the pandemic began, underscoring the urgency facing authorities to contain the disease. Europe’s largest economy had 2,963 people being treated for the coronavirus in intensive care facilities on Monday, exceeding the previous peak of 2,933 on April 18, according to the DIVI register of German ICU capacity. Coronavirus cases are climbing rapidly in South Africa’s Eastern Cape province, News24 reported, citing government figures. Hospital admissions due to infections with the virus are near a record at 710 and the positivity rate of tests conducted climbed to 23.9% in the week ended Oct. 31, from 9.2% in the week ended Sept. 26, News24 said. China will disinfect all overseas shipments of cold-chain products to try and avoid any potential transmission of the coronavirus, after contaminated pork and seafood were implicated in the infection of port workers, according to the country’s public health commission. The move is aimed at ensuring the safety of imported chilled or frozen goods, while improving the efficiency of customs clearance and avoiding a backlog of cargoes at ports, according to the plan released Monday in conjunction with the customs administration, the transport ministry and the market regulator. Contaminated frozen pork from Germany may have infected a port worker in China’s northern Tianjin city, the local health commission said on Sunday. Utah, facing overcrowded hospitals, declared a state of emergency. Governor Gary Herbert ordered a statewide mask mandate, as well as two-week restrictions on casual social gatherings and extracurricular activities. The state plans to increase its testing. Daily coronavirus cases in Japan’s northernmost island of Hokkaido are set to surpass 200 on Monday, TBS reported, as the country continues to see rising infections.The island, which has a population of 5 million, has seen a surge in cases in recent days as the weather cools. Local authorities have called for bars to close early in the capital Sapporo’s nightlife district, and moved to the third-highest alert level on the region’s own five-point scheme. Hokkaido was home to one of the earliest outbreaks in the country and declared its own state of emergency in February. Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato said in his daily briefing Monday that infections are increasing across Japan. On Saturday, 1,302 cases were recorded nationwide, making it one of the worst days for infections in the country so far. Daily cases peaked at 1,595 during the wave in early August. South Korea is expanding nationwide testing of all patients and workers at nursing homes and mental hospitals as health authorities look to stave off outbreaks at the high-risk facilities that have previously stymied the country’s efforts to contain the virus spread. Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency said it has tested patients and staffers at nearly 8,000 facilities in the greater Seoul and other metropolitan areas, and have detected 38 infections. The agency did not disclose exactly how many have been tested but said previously that more than 180,000 people could be tested, regardless of whether they had symptoms or were in contact with a confirmed case. The Asian nation on Monday reported 126 new cases, down from 143 a day earlier. The director-general of the World Health Organization, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, congratulated Joe Biden and Kamala Harris on their U.S. election victory. “My WHO colleagues and I look forward to working with you and your teams,” he said in a tweet. “Crises like the COVID19 pandemic show the importance of global solidarity in protecting lives and livelihoods. Together!” Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus Photographer: Stefan Wermuth/Bloomberg President-elect Biden’s health-care advisers have held talks with pharmaceutical-industry executives in which they discussed Operation Warp Speed, the U.S. development program for coronavirus vaccines and treatments, according to people familiar with the matter. Biden advisers met with companies that have Covid-19 vaccines or therapies in late-stage clinical trials in September and October, the people said. The purpose was to gather information about the development, manufacturing and distribution of shots to ward off the novel coronavirus and therapies to treat the sick. New York reported 3,428 cases Sunday, the third consecutive day with more than 3,000 infections, the highest levels since early May. Cases in New York, the early epicenter of the U.S. outbreak, have been rising steadily since late September, as the state identified hot spots in Brooklyn and Queens in New York City and counties upstate. Close to 10 million Americans have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the past 10 months, and with the start of winter just a month away, and the public increasingly likely to spend more time cooped up inside, the virus shows few signs of slowing down. Medical staff treat a Covid-19 patient in Houston. Almost 10 million Americans have been diagnosed with Covid-19 this year. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images Infections are setting sequential daily records and expected to soar further as cold weather grips northern U.S. states, schools and businesses try to reopen, people move their daily activities inside and the holidays spur gatherings, health officials and experts said. Greece reported 35 additional deaths from Covid-19 on Sunday, a record number for the second straight day. With patients swamping intensive-care units, Greece began a nationwide lockdown on Saturday that’s scheduled to stay in place through November. Cases increased by 1,914 on the day to 56,698. Confirmed cases worldwide surpassed 50 million, with the U.S. accounting for the biggest number -- 9.9 million -- followed by India, Brazil, Russia and France, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. More than 1.2 million people have died of causes related to Covid-19. A police patrol in Milan during the lockdown in Lombardy red zone on Saturday. Photographer: Mairo Cinquetti/NurPhoto/Getty Images Italy reported 32,616 new cases on Sunday, some 7,000 fewer than a record number the day before but the fifth consecutive day with more than 30,000. Another 331 deaths were blamed on Covid-19. More Italian regions are considering lockdowns after authorities imposed tighter restrictions on the worst-hit areas, including Milan and Turin. The U.K. reported more than 20,000 cases for the sixth straight day, though the 20,572 reported Sunday were below the seven-day average of 22,826. With 156 new deaths, the toll was less than half of the weekly average. Reporting has lagged on weekends. German riot police confront anti-lockdown demonstrators in Leipzig on Saturday. Photographer: Omer Messinger/Getty Images A protest in Leipzig against coronavirus restrictions turned violent on Saturday evening with attacks on police and journalists. The thousands of people who didn’t wear masks or observe social distancing showed “a height of irresponsibility and egotism,” Justice Minister Christine Lambrecht said. “Such a situation cannot be allowed to happen again in the midst of a pandemic.” Italy will add over 2.8 billion euros ($3.3 billion) in spending with the latest relief package for businesses hit by the country’s second lockdown, Finance Minister Roberto Gualtieri said on Facebook. Activities hurt by the latest restrictions will receive as much as 200% of the benefits they received during the first lockdown. Italians are prohibited from leaving or entering cities in high-risk areas, including Milan, Italy’s financial hub, and northern industrial cities. All non-essential commercial activities are closed in the area. Italians are prohibited from leaving or entering cities in high-risk areas. Photographer: Filippo Monteforte/AFP/Getty Images — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland, and Youkyung Lee