Photographer: Angela Weiss/AFP/Getty Images Photographer: Angela Weiss/AFP/Getty Images We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. South Korea may announce tougher measures on Sunday to contain a resurgence in cases, while the U.K. is poised to become the first country to approve Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s Covid-19 vaccine. San Francisco followed Los Angeles in imposing tighter restrictions. New York City’s cases continued to swell, while the state’s overall infections retreated from a daily spike of more than 8,100. City authorities shut down what they described as an illegal nightclub where almost 400 people were partying without adhering to social distancing rules, the New York Times reported. Colorado Governor Jared Polis said he and his partner tested positive for the virus. China halted imports from a Chilean seafood producer as a precautionary measure after detecting the Covid-19 pathogen on the supplier’s packaging. South Korea confirmed 450 more cases in 24 hours. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The U.K. has agreed to buy more than 350 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines Duke Global Health Innovation Center Chart excludes options for additional doses A large number of South Australians are being urged to get a coronavirus test — even if they do not have symptoms — in the wake of an infected man leaving quarantine and visiting several shops and businesses in Adelaide last Sunday, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported. The man, in his 30s, is believed to have caught the virus through a casual contact at Flinders University. The governor of Colorado, where an estimated one in 41 of the state’s 5.7 million residents carried the Covid-19 virus over the past week, has tested positive and is resting at home. Governor Polis, an early advocate of masks, issued a statement Saturday night saying his partner was also infected. Earlier in the week, the governor of neighboring Wyoming tested positive. Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun will hold a press briefing at 4:30 p.m. Sunday local time, immediately following a a meeting where officials will discuss whether to further strengthen social-distancing rules in the greater Seoul area from level 2, Yonhap reported. The current level bans gatherings in high-risk facilities such as night clubs and karaoke bars, and prohibits restaurants from serving customers after 9 p.m. An escalation to level 2.5 would limit operation hours at facilities such as wedding halls and movie theaters. Level 3, the strongest, would expand the measures to other businesses. The country’s daily new infections has climbed by more than 400 for four straight days. The country has intensified virus prevention measures around its border areas, strengthening protocols and monitoring of movements, KCNA reported Sunday. The government signed a deal for a further 2 million doses of Moderna Inc.’s vaccine candidate, bringing the total to 7 million for the U.K., according to a statement. The government said it has now secured 357 million vaccine doses from 7 different developers. Import applications from Chilean seafood producer Pesquera Isla Del Rey SA will be suspended for one week after a nucleic acid test on the packaging of a batch of frozen crab showed positive results for the pathogen, the General Administration of Customs said in a statement on its website on Saturday. China has been vocal about finding traces of the SARS-CoV-2 virus on packaging and food, raising fears that imported items are linked to recent resurgences. Beijing has ordered a range of precautionary steps, creating disruptions with its trading partners. San Francisco was moved to the most restrictive tier by California following a jump in coronavirus cases, prompting a slew of new measures across the city. “I don’t know how to be more clear -- this is the most dangerous time we’ve faced during this pandemic,” said Mayor London Breed. The new restrictions will kick off Sunday, starting with the closing of movie theaters, gyms, museums, zoos and aquariums, and even houses of worship. The capacity at indoor stores, including pharmacies, will be cut by half to 25%. Los Angeles, which imposed another stay-home order starting Monday, said the measures are less stringent than those issued in March despite a sudden case surge because face-wearing and social distancing have proven effective. The city has more coronavirus cases and deaths than any other U.S. county, with a five-day average of more than 4,500 new cases. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell informed fellow Senate Republicans on Saturday that he is temporarily suspending their in-person lunches amid increasing coronavirus cases nationally, including some more conference members this month. The Republican senators were told of change to their lunch meetings in calls Saturday, said a person familiar with McConnell’s decision. The Republicans have been holding socially distanced lunches since May. Altogether, eight senators have had positive tests for the virus, according to https://www.govtrack.us/covid-19. All eight are among the Senate’s 53 Republicans. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has promised a review of England’s new Covid-19 restrictions on Dec. 16, the Press Association reported. Input will come from local public health officials, with government ministers making a final decision. Each region will be reviewed every two weeks. More than 150 people were arrested during anti-lockdown protests in central London, for offenses including breaching health regulations and assaulting a police officer, the Metropolitan Police said. In South Wales, police handed out 12 fixed penalties and 15 warnings to drivers as part of random checks to make sure people going into the capital Cardiff were allowed to do so. A new French survey found that 59% of respondents said they wouldn’t get a Covid-19 vaccine once it becomes available, Le Journal Du Dimanche reported on Sunday, citing the findings of the Ifop survey carried out on Nov. 26-27. Brazil ended its third week of newly surging cases with another 51,922 infections reported Saturday. Another 587 people died on Saturday, also at the end of three weeks of a rising level of fatalities. Cases and fatalities in Brazil had been steadily falling since a peak in July. Deaths are now roughly at same level as in May, and cases on par with early July. The nation has the most infections after the U.S. and India. The U.K. may approve the vaccine as early as next week, becoming the first ahead of a long line of countries waiting for protection from the coronavirus, a person familiar with the situation said, asking not to be identified because the process is confidential. The U.K. had long signaled it would move fast on any promising vaccine candidate. Russia and China have cleared vaccines for general use, but they’re unlikely to be adopted in the U.S. and Europe. Joe Biden’s transition team named three more experts to its Covid-19 Advisory Board, which is helping guide the president-elect to fulfill the key campaign promise of a robust, national strategy against the resurgent virus. The new members are Jane Hopkins, a nurse specializing in mental health who worked most recently in Washington state; Jill Jim, executive director of the Navajo Nation Department of Health; and David Michaels, an epidemiologist at George Washington University who served in the Clinton and Obama administrations. New York state reported 6,063 cases Saturday, a marked drop from the spike of 8,176 the previous day, when a record 219,442 tests were conducted, Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement. Cuomo has adopted what he calls a “micro-cluster” strategy that targets an increasing number of areas with higher infection for tighter restrictions. The positivity rate inside those areas is 5.65%, outside 3.45%, he said. France’s fatalities rose by 213 to 52,127 on Saturday, the smallest daily increase in a month. That’s as the government eased some of the lockdown measures that have curbed infections and hospitalizations across the country, with non-essential stores reopening after four weeks of shutdown. Health authorities reported confirmed cases increased by 12,580 to 2.21 million, while the seven-day average fell to 11,664 cases, the lowest since Oct. 5. The rate of positive tests continued its decline of the past three weeks, falling to 11.4% from 20.6% early November. Greece reported 121 Covid-19 related deaths in the past 24 hours, a daily record. The number of daily cases fell to 1,747 bringing the total to 103,034. The government announced Thursday that the lockdown will be extended for a week to Dec. 7. “We know that we have one or two very difficult weeks ahead of us,” Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said during a visit to the second largest city of Thessaloniki, calling on Greeks to be even more careful when restrictions start easing. Italy reported on Saturday 686 virus deaths on 26,323 new daily cases, in a declining trend compared with the previous day. The number of patients in intensive care units across the country continued to slightly fall for the third day, while total number of hospitalized patients fell for the fifth day. The number of new virus cases in the U.K. declined for a third straight day. The U.K. reported 15,871 infections, below the average of 16,725 for the previous seven days. Another 479 deaths were reported Saturday, above the weekly average of 467. The Metropolitan Police said it arrested more than 60 people protesting against coronavirus measures in central London. The national lockdown in England is set to end on Wednesday. The capital will move into Tier 2, allowing non-essential shops to reopen for the first time in a month. — With assistance by Sam Nagarajan, Katharina Rosskopf, Veronika Gulyas, Nikos Chrysoloras, Chris Kay, Anirban Nag, Sara Marley, Daniele Lepido, Sotiris Nikas, Rudy Ruitenberg, Linus Chua, Deirdre Hipwell, Naomi Kresge, Angelina Rascouet, Billy House, Yueqi Yang, Winnie Zhu, Hooyeon Kim, and Vincent Del Giudice