 British home buyers on a budget face a frustrating puzzle: The Bank of England has  kept interest rates at a record low 0.1%, yet mortgage lenders have been driving their own rates up. Demand for homes is high right now. That’s in part because the government temporarily scrapped a related levy — known as stamp duty — in July. Sales soon soared to their highest level in over a decade. Prices posted their  biggest annual increase since 2015 in October. But lenders’ capacity to deal with this surge has been limited by the Covid pandemic. Their staff can’t process as many mortgages as usual, and they can’t take on as much risk in today’s economic climate. As a result, the average rate on two-year fixed-rate mortgages rose .44 percentage points between July and November, from 1.99% to 2.43%, according to Moneyfacts, a price-comparison company. At the same time, lenders have been taking products off the market, particularly those used by budget buyers with smaller deposits. This may suddenly make homeownership unaffordable for price-sensitive consumers. Here is what experts say they can do: Many banks have pulled mortgages with loan-to-value ratios of 90% or higher. Higher ratios allow buyers to borrow more and put down less as deposit, but banks see them as bigger default risks. Still, some lenders have made exceptions. In early November, one mortgage company, Accord, launched a limited-release, three-day sale of 90% LTV mortgages at a five-year fixed rate of 3.79%. That rate is higher than Moneyfacts’ 2.7% November average for all five-year fixed-rate products, but it would still give people with smaller deposits the option of getting a mortgage. Accord ended up extending the sale by several days. But brokers said that buyers seeking to take advantage of sales like these would have to act extraordinarily quickly. Richard Bragg, a mortgage specialist at Haven Financial Solutions in Dorset, said time-limited sales can be helpful “but it really is a case of the stars aligning.” Buyers would need to have an accepted offer with a seller on a property — potentially without knowing if they will have financing — within the brief window of the sale. Even for the most organized, that is a tall order. Kirsty Cantwell and her boyfriend had been saving for a deposit for years, putting away at least 700 pounds ($920) a month. This summer, they were thrilled when they received an agreement in principle for a loan of 230,000 pounds on a deposit of 30,000 pounds. But a few days later, the lender unexpectedly pulled their offer. All the other 90% LTV products they could find had rates that were too high, including one that went up to 4.4%. Cantwell and her boyfriend managed to up their deposit to 40,000 pounds. They squeezed this out of a fund of 10,000 pounds they had been saving for possible property repairs. Now, the 85% LTV mortgage they received at a rate of 2.39% means they will be making payments of around 730 pounds a month, which is within their budget. Armed with this deal, they will soon be moving into a three-bedroom, end-of-terrace Victorian home with a 50-foot garden in Colchester, about an hour northeast of London. Brokers say first-time buyers stung by rate increases should consider the government program, which enables borrowers to take out a mortgage with a down payment of as little as 5%. The state gives an interest-free loan of 20% (or 40% in London) of a new home’s cost for five years. That is in return for a stake in any increase in the property’s value over the period. The home must cost 600,000 pounds or less. Homeowners then borrow the rest of the money from a lender. Their rates will usually be lower because they are borrowing less money. Brokers caution that the program may have inflated prices for new-build properties that are on the market for the first time. Buyers may end up paying more for their new homes than they will be able to sell them for later, since at that point the homes will no longer be on the market for the first time and will not be eligible for the program. “You sort of risk falling into the situation of a new car,” Bragg said. “As soon as you drive it out the showroom, it’s not a new car anymore.” Emma Nesham had a specific vision when she was house hunting earlier this year. The 25-year-old digital-marketing executive hoped to start a new life with her partner by moving cities and going in together on a fixer-upper in York, a city 200 miles north of London known for its Gothic cathedral and charming urban center. While her mortgage options initially seemed plentiful, Nesham soon saw her potential rates rise from around 1.4% to 1.59%, which would have made repayments on her budget of 300,000 pounds unaffordable. So she reduced that figure to 220,000 and rerouted her search to the northern city of Richmond, her current home city where prices are lower. There, Nesham and her partner were able to find a three-bedroom home for 210,000. Given the economic climate, staying in the area means the couple will also be keeping their current jobs instead of looking for new ones. Another perk of this compromise: Their house has the biggest garden on the street. The answer may hurt. But the question is one that advisers say buyers would be wise to ask themselves in this environment. It is this: Can you truly afford a house right now? “If there is a 1% increase and suddenly you can’t afford the rate, the lender probably shouldn’t be lending to you,” said Miles Robinson, head of mortgages at Trussle, an online broker. “Market volatility to that extent shouldn’t put buyers under that sort of stress.” That doesn’t mean your house hunt has to end. Rates change. You can prepare for when they come down. Adam Tankard, the managing director of advisory service Tankard Wealth in London, said aspiring homeowners can do themselves a favor by saving in tax-preferred accounts like the Lifetime ISA. The more you have for a deposit, the better your rate may be in the future. Those gearing up for a future purchase should also work on beefing up their credit scores now. “What is amazing for your credit score is if you have closed accounts,” he said. Showing that you are a responsible borrower and have paid off loans in the past will likely make lenders more willing to lend to you when the time is right.