Sam Woods As one of the City of London’s most traditional events turned virtual for the first time, one of its principal rulemakers said post-Brexit regulation of the U.K. financial sector may return to past principles -- though that won’t mean a looser regime. “The government proposes to move back to a more British style of regulation, with the rules made by regulators rather than set out in law,” Sam Woods, chief executive officer of the Bank of England’s Prudential Regulation Authority, said as the video-linked version of the Mansion House banquet got underway. That said, “we have no interest whatsoever in a race-to-the-bottom approach to financial regulation.” His comments Thursday come days after the U.K. offered an olive branch to the European Union over cross-border financial services, saying it viewed EU rules as equivalent to its own in many areas. The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, is still considering whether to grant equivalence to the U.K. “Despite the fears sometimes articulated by politicians in the EU, we have absolutely no intention of weakening prudential regulation in the U.K.,” said Woods. However, “it is clear that neither the EU nor the U.K. wishes to be shackled in lockstep with the other,” he said. Normally one of the most lavish events in the City’s calendar, the Mansion House banquet this year swapped black-tie toasts over silverware for socially distanced warnings about the danger the continuing Covid-19 pandemic poses to the financial industry. “Ultimately, we can’t intervene to stop firms from failing in the face of economic distress,” said Nikhil Rathi, who became head of the Financial Conduct Authority in October. “Sadly, we do expect a significant number of regulated firms, particularly smaller firms, to fail in the months ahead.” The U.K. faces a fraught end to the year as sluggish Brexit negotiations coincide with emergency restrictions around the world to slow the spread of Covid-19 and its economic pain. The BOE cut rates to zero and has spoken to lenders about introducing negative rates if needed. Last week, a fresh wave of stimulus was unleashed to counter the effects of a second, month-long national lockdown. Amid this environment, Woods said the central bank was considering a move to a graduated system of regulation, where smaller lenders would face less onerous burdens.