Photographer: Klaus Vedfelt/Digital Vision/Getty Images Photographer: Klaus Vedfelt/Digital Vision/Getty Images Take a pandemic, combine it with a global recession and add a sprinkle of pent-up nationalism. For skilled foreign workers around the globe it’s an increasingly bitter cocktail. From financial-powerhouse Singapore to the U.S.’s tech hubs to oil-rich Kuwait, life has gotten much tougher for workers living abroad who until recently were courted for their expertise. Tighter visa criteria, fewer jobs and concerted government pressure on companies to hire locally is forcing many to return home. “There’s been a bit of backlash from the local population toward expats,” said William Harvey, a professor at the University of Exeter who studies talent management and migration. “It’s easier to lay off people who are not from the country.” Mohamed Faizer is one of many who knows that first hand. In March, the Hong Kong citizen was head of security at Kuwait’s Jazeera Airways and thriving. Then Covid hit and Faizer lost his job in the wave of cost-cutting that followed. This year the airline was forced to slash its workforce, laying off both expats and Kuwaiti nationals. “Everything was going so smoothly, and I was happy,” Faizer said. “Unfortunately, Covid-19 changed everything.” Now he’s in Hong Kong scrambling to resettle while his wife and children remain in the Gulf. “I can’t pull them out without anything to bring them back to,” Faizer said. About 100 Indians each day are registering for flights home from Singapore, India’s High Commissioner told the local press in September. In a historic reversal, New Zealand — which is used to more citizens leaving than coming home — clocked 33,200 overseas residents returning between April and September of this year, according to official statistics. And in the year to April 2020, more Irish nationals returned home than at any point since 2007, government figures show. Some of this movement, of course, is voluntary. The pandemic has forced many to confront whether being so far away from friends and family is really what they want. Countries like Australia, an international leader in containing the virus, have witnessed a rush of returnees who’ve decided to prioritize lifestyle over career. The virus though has accelerated trends building before the pandemic as local angst about issues of opportunity, housing and infrastructure increased to include foreigners high on the skill chain. Would-be skilled migrants to the U.S. are in limbo. In June, President Donald Trump signed an  executive order halting access to new H1-B and H-4 visas, used by technology workers and their families, as well as L visas for intra-company transfers and most J visas for work- and study-abroad programs. The rejection rate for skilled worker visas in the U.S. has climbed Source: National Foundation for American Policy Note: 2020 data as of end of second quarter The legality of the restrictions has been challenged in court, leaving many uncertain about their prospects. The U.S. issued more than 900,000 visas in these categories last year, though they’ve become harder to obtain. Trump’s move comes on the back of years of rising scrutiny over the tech industry’s use of foreign workers. Critics say some companies have abused the program to displace American workers and have demanded major reforms to restrict access. Nearly 300 companies — including banks and fund managers — in the Asian financial hub are currently under government scrutiny for possibly pre-selecting foreigners for jobs or not giving Singaporeans a “fair chance.” The government has also increased minimum salary requirements for work passes and toughened requirements for jobs to be advertised locally first. International moving companies have reported a big drop in inbound inquiries, while real estate agents have also noted rising numbers giving up fancy rental apartments to move home. That’s despite the  political turmoil in Hong Kong, which some predicted would tempt more people to move to Singapore. Still, top officials have maintained that the country hasn’t closed its doors to top talent and just this month introduced a new visa program to attract tech entrepreneurs and experts. In oil-dependent Kuwait, skilled and unskilled foreign workers account for about 70% of its population of 4.8 million. In June, its prime minister said he wanted that cut to 30% to  support jobs for Kuwaiti citizens, as the pandemic and a slump in oil prices hit the economy. Kuwait has introduced strict new rules, including one that prohibits work permits for anyone over 60 without a university degree. This poses a challenge for Murali Nair, 59, who moved from India to Kuwait in 1999. The computer-design engineer worked at the same oil contractor for 17 years. When new projects dried up, Nair had to leave in August and hasn’t been paid since July. Waiting in Kerala, India, Nair said that while he wants to go back to Kuwait, the new rules mean he would only be able to stay until his next birthday. There are exceptions to the pushback, one of the most notable being Dubai. As part of a plan to diversity its economy from oil, it’s been trying to encourage expats to think about the city as a longer term destination in the hope that will lead to more investment.  As well as a program to allow foreigners the chance to retire in the emirate it is also introducing new rules to decriminalize alcohol and allow the cohabitation of unmarried couples. If you are an expat in one of the above countries — or any other — experts note moving back home isn’t without its challenges. Whether you’ve got time to plan or are facing a quick relocation because of an abrupt lay-off, here are a few points you should consider: As a returning high-skilled expat you can be a real asset to a local employer, said Andrew Hanson, New South Wales managing director for recruiter Robert Walters. But you need to put the work in. Here are some of his tips: — With assistance by Verity Ratcliffe