For most Hong Kong residents, owning a three-bedroom house with a backyard is the stuff of idle fantasy. But for Maggie Poon, it’s soon going to become reality — though the setting is in Manchester, U.K. She recently offered around 600,000 pounds ($787,000) for such a property in the northern British city after deciding to emigrate with her family. That’s upper-end money for Manchester, but still less than half the cost of the cheapest house of a similar size on the market in Hong Kong. “I never thought I could have a front yard for gardening, a backyard for my kids to play and convenient parking,” said Poon, who is renting while waiting for the transaction to close. “Only luxury homes worth millions could have that in Hong Kong.” She’s not alone in making such a calculus. The British government’s decision to offer residency rights to about 3 million people in its former colony has at a stroke created a huge new pool of potential buyers. A tax break on purchases — part of policies aimed at reviving a pandemic-ravaged economy — has also added to the U.K.’s allure this year. As China tightens its grip on the city, Hong Kongers are betting that the prospect of having at least a foothold in the U.K. will prove an advantage. In the past six months, 42% of all overseas property exhibitions in Hong Kong featured the U.K., according to Eli McGeever, the vice president of international property at SohoApp.com. Manchester has become so popular that it’s now the focus of almost one in three of those U.K. exhibitions, he said. The number of exhibitions in Hong Kong marketing U.K. property has soared Source:: SohoApp.com  London, the traditional destination for rich Hong Kongers buying in the U.K., still has the largest presence. But as the demographics of buyers shifts towards the middle class, it’s no longer the automatic first choice. At her budget, Poon felt buying in Manchester was a no-brainer. There, she got a substantial home in a smart area and close to outstanding schools — things she’d have struggled to afford in the U.K. capital, where properties cost more than twice the price in the north. Go outside the pricey south, and U.K. properties get dramatically cheaper Source: Hometrack  That message about relative value is something you can’t miss if you’re in Hong Kong right now and in the market for a property. There are advertisements for northern U.K. residential projects on the front page of newspapers, on billboards and running across social media. And people aren’t just hearing about the north from the professionals. Marco Hung, better known as Cocogor, is one of Hong Kong’s most popular creators of Cantonese-language investment videos. He’s a fan of London and plans to live there when he emigrates — at least in part because of the relatively warmer weather than in northern Britain. Yet after a month this year traveling the U.K. searching for an investment property, the prospect of better rental yields led him to buy in Liverpool. The dozen videos he made about his journey have attracted more than 2 million views. Even he’s surprised: “So many people asked me about it that I couldn’t reply to them all.” Salford estate agent Martin Hill says he started noticing swelling international interest about three months ago. “They’re knocking a lot of buyers out of the water with what they are offering,” said Hill, managing director of Hills Residential, which operates in the west Manchester area. He stressed that he’s remaining cautious until he’s able to see how many sales are actually completed. “Many are pulling money out of Hong Kong to fund purchases.” The process is getting more organized, he said. “There seems to be a lot of firms popping up in the last year or so that do these investment tours for foreign buyers,” Hill said. “They want to book a block of viewings, and they turn up in a tour bus.” Such mass inspections are clearly on hold during a second Covid-19 lockdown, but that’s not the only reason Hill isn’t counting the money just yet. “It’s all good and well saying people want to buy it and getting an agreed sale, until it’s actually complete, it doesn’t mean anything to me.” Would-be buyers also need to be cautious and look beyond the appealing sticker prices. Here are just a few things to consider: Check your numbers: Especially for those looking for an investment property, do the numbers still stack up in the Covid era? Traditionally, northern cities like Manchester and Sheffield were attractive for landlords because their large student population offered a steady stream of tenants. Is this still a realistic assumption? Additionally, apartment rents in cities are falling around the globe. Check the basis on which any estimates are offered. Tax window: Two tax sweeteners that have increased the lure of the U.K. are due to end next year. A   temporary discount on sales tax will end for all, and foreign buyers will face a surcharge. Mortgage brokers are reporting long waits for loan approvals, meaning that deals might not be completed before the deadline. Know what you are buying: Do you have enough information to be comfortable about the purchase? Is the developer reputable? If it’s an existing property, are you sure there aren’t any surprises about the area? What would you actually own? There are two main types of property tenure in the U.K.:  leasehold and freehold. In a leasehold, you essentially rent a property for a period of years. Properties with short leases can be difficult to resell or remortgage. Check your comparables: When checking similar sales, factor in things like government school catchment areas, which in the U.K. can radically alter prices. Job availability: For those who are thinking of relocating, remember why property is cheaper in cities beyond London. One key reason is that the local economies aren’t as strong or wages as high. 