The U.S. presidential election remained unsettled Wednesday morning as key states continued counting ballots. After a relatively untroubled day at U.S. polling places, unprecedented numbers of early and mail-in votes complicated counts across the country. By Wednesday morning, both President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden retained potential paths to victory. Other developments: Wisconsin’s Elections Commission administrator said “all the votes are in” in the battleground state, but she declined to confirm unofficial tallies that show Biden with a lead of more than 20,000 votes. “All of the ballots have indeed been counted,” Meagan Wolfe, the commission administrator, told NBC News. “So the ballots are back from the local precincts, they’ve counted the Election Day votes. And every ballot that arrived by 8 p.m. yesterday was counted at the essential count facility or at the polling place.” Unofficial Wisconsin tallies provided by the Associated Press show Biden with 1,630,396 to Trump’s 1,609,879. --Misyrlena Egkolfopoulou Preliminary results from Michigan could be released by the end of the day, once the majority of ballots are counted, Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson said.There are still “tens of thousands” of votes yet to be tabulated, and many of the remaining votes are from the state’s population centers -- Detroit, Grand Rapids, Flint and Kalamazoo, she said on CNN.Benson said she asked for “patience” while election workers process “every single valid vote cast.” -- Laura Davison Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger said Wednesday the state has only about 250,000 ballots left to count, and he expects to have every vote counted by the end of the day. Votes remain uncounted from DeKalb, Fulton and Forsyth counties, among others. DeKalb and Fulton lean Democratic. Forsyth leans Republican. -- Michael Sasso As Trump conjures up images of massive fraud in counting mail-in ballots after Election Day, Philadelphia officials sought to reassure voters that it just “takes a little bit of time,” as city Commissioner Al Schmidt put it. Both an inner secrecy envelope holding the ballot and an outer envelope have to be opened, then the ballot extracted, flattened and scanned -- and counting stations must be cleaned between shifts, Schmidt said at a Wednesday morning news conference. Large-scale mail-in balloting is also new to Pennsylvania, which approved it in October 2019, before the coronavirus pandemic led to a flood of requests -- and counties were handcuffed by a commonwealth law preventing them from processing mail-in ballots until 7 a.m. on Election Day. Philadelphia, the most populous city in the state that may decide the presidency, has reported a count of 186,486 of the 350,000 to 400,000 mail-in ballots that it expects. -- Mark Niquette Twitter Inc. hid another tweet from Trump behind a warning label for violating the company’s civic integrity policy Wednesday. It did likewise for a tweet from Wisconsin’s Democratic Party chairman. Trump’s tweet, which claimed Democratic-controlled states had “surprise ballot dumps,” can no longer be liked, and users can’t comment on it. Twitter has a policy that forbids tweets that undermine election results. Trump also had a tweet hidden last night after suggesting Democrats were trying to “steal” the election. The same post about ballot dumps was also labeled on Facebook, though Facebook labels all posts that talk about voting and the election. Earlier Wednesday, Twitter also hid a tweet from Ben Wikler, the chairman of Wisconsin’s Democratic Party, which noted how Biden’s tally had risen and declared that Biden had just won the state. In a speech very early Wednesday morning, Trump called the election a “fraud” and an “embarrassment.” He also suggested that he’d already won the election, which has not been called. “Frankly, we did win this election,” he said. Twitter did not label that video despite a rule against candidates prematurely claiming victory. “Recordings or clips of the press conference on their own are not a violation of our policies,” a company spokesman said, pointing out that many news organizations also carried the speech live and posted videos of it to Twitter. -- Kurt Wagner Pennsylvania is “approaching” the halfway point on counting its mailed-in ballots, said Kathy Boockvar, the Pennsylvania Secretary of the Commonwealth.“There are still millions of ballots left to be counted,” she said in a press conference Wednesday morning. “We are exactly where we said we would be.”Boockvar said she expects that when everything is counted there will be as many as 3 million mailed ballots. Pennsylvania officials are still receiving some ballots. They will accept ballots postmarked by election day until 5 p.m. on Nov. 6. Ballots from military and overseas voters can be received until Nov. 10. -- Laura Davison Former Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, a Republican, said Trump faces a “high hurdle” if the current count there holds and the president’s campaign asks for a recount. Biden led by more than 20,000 votes, about seven-tenths of a percentage point, in the latest count. When a winning margin is within 1 percentage point, Wisconsin election commission rules permit the second-place finisher to ask for a recount. After a recount in 2016, when Trump won Wisconsin by 0.8 percentage points, his count rose by 131, Walker said in a tweet. A 2011 recount in a judicial race saw a swing of 300 votes, he said. “If it holds, 20,000 is a high hurdle” given that context, said Walker, who served as governor from 2011 to 2019. -- Amanda Albright After recount in 2011 race for WI Supreme Court, there was a swing of 300 votes. After recount in 2016 Presidential race in WI, @realDonaldTrump numbers went up by 131. As I said, 20,000 is a high hurdle. #Election2020 https://t.co/CEr82eiCWH Prominent big-business and labor organizations that are often political foes joined to call for patience as votes continue to be tallied. “With voting ending today, it is imperative that election officials be given the space and time to count every vote in accordance with applicable laws,” U.S. Chamber of Commerce Chief Executive Officer Tom Donohue and AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka said in a joint statement on Wednesday. “Although we may not always agree on desired outcomes up and down the ballot, we are united in our call for the American democratic process to proceed without violence, intimidation or any other tactic that makes us weaker as a nation,” they said in the statement, which was also signed by National Association of Evangelicals President Walter Kim and National African American Clergy Network Co-Convener Barbara Williams-Skinner. -- Ryan Beene As America’s vote count dragged on, several demonstrations were planned for New York City on Wednesday, according to social-media posts and press statements by advocacy groups. One, set for 4 p.m. at the New York Public Library in Manhattan, was planned in case Trump declared a premature victory before all mail-in votes are counted, Patrick Houston, an associate at New York Communities for Change, said Tuesday. Trump did just that, in the wee hours of Wednesday. New York City police officials said Tuesday that, even as they expected election night to be calm, they were watching Wednesday’s events carefully. Houston said he expected “many hundreds and possibly a few thousand” people. He said attendees shouldn’t engage with agitators or police officers: “Stay calm, stay peaceful and raise our voices in the street, and commit to non-violence.” Across the U.S., more than 100 demonstrations were already being advertised by the left-leaning group Protect The Results, which counts Greenpeace and the Black Lives Matter PAC among its partners. The Wednesday events were tentative and some were to be virtual, the website said. They were meant to respond “if Trump takes action to undermine the results.” -- Danielle Moran, Henry Goldman, Rachel Adams-Heard In Michigan, Biden erased Trump’s lead and pulled ahead at about 9:30 a.m. New York time after early morning vote results came in from the Detroit suburbs. The former vice president captured 57% of Oakland County, a traditionally blue suburb north of the Motor City. Biden’s 428,000 votes topped Barack Obama’s 2012 total by nearly 80,000 votes. With 90% of the vote in, Biden was opening up a lead that gave Democratic supporters more confidence. The outstanding votes are in traditionally blue counties like Wayne, which is home to Detroit, and Ingham, where the capitol, Lansing, is located. In Wayne County, Biden had about two-thirds of the vote with 59% of the precincts reporting, according to the county’s website. Many of the votes that haven’t been reported are mail-in ballots, according to Patrick Schuh, director of AmericaVotes, an organization aligned with the Democrats. That indicates that Biden may be able to pad his lead. In Oakland County, Biden won 67% of the mail-in ballot, Schuh said in a phone interview. “We’re optimistic,” Schuh said. “The trends in mail-in ballots give us that optimism but we still want every vote counted.” -- David Welch For those keeping track of such things, Biden was leading the national popular vote by more than 2.3 million votes as of Wednesday morning. He had 69.6 million votes to 67.3 million for Trump in partial results. This is hardly alarming for Trump, since U.S. presidencies are won with electors rather than vote totals. He lost the popular vote in 2016 by almost 2.9 million votes to Democrat Hillary Clinton, who scored huge margins of victory in the populous blue states of California, New York and Illinois, where Trump had done little campaigning. The loser of the popular vote (George W. Bush) also won the presidency in 2000. Before that it had happened only three times, in 1824, 1876 and 1888. -- Laurence Arnold With 100% of precincts now reporting, Trump is still leading Biden in the Tar Heel State. But Trump’s margin -- about 78,000 votes -- is less than the number of outstanding absentee ballots yet to be counted, about 117,000, leaving the race too close to call. Both candidates made frequent visits to North Carolina, which Barack Obama narrowly won in 2008 but lost in 2012. Trump won the state by 3.6 percentage points in 2016. -- Andrew Ballard Biden’s lead over Trump in Nevada, a state Hillary Clinton narrowly won in 2016, has narrowed to less than 8,000 votes, or 0.64 percentage points, according to the latest batch of returns. While Nevada is done counting for the evening, the race is not over there yet: Tens of thousands of mail-in and provisional ballots from same-day registration have yet to be counted, including in urban parts of Clark County, where those votes may favor Democrats. Nevada allows mail-in ballots that are postmarked by Election Day to be counted until Nov. 10. The latest numbers reflect all votes cast in person on Tuesday and in weeks of early voting, as well as all mail ballots received through Monday. The next update will be at 9 a.m. on Thursday, according to the Secretary of State. Clinton won the state by a margin of 2.42 percentage points four years ago. -- Laura Bliss In Wisconsin, Biden took a small lead around 4:30 a.m. New York time, as several metropolitan areas submitted their absentee ballot counts. As expected, the Democrat took a large haul from Milwaukee, the state’s biggest city -- crucial to potentially overcoming Trump’s strength in smaller towns and rural areas. An influx of nearly 170,000 absentee votes from the city of Milwaukee erased the solid lead from in-person voting that Trump had maintained since the polls closed at 8 p.m. The president, who carried Wisconsin by 0.8 percentage points in 2016, trailed Biden in by 0.3 percentage points in the latest figures with some precincts still outstanding. -- Monte Reel Ballot-counting continues in key battleground states, including Georgia, Wisconsin, Michigan, North Carolina and Pennsylvania, as the presidency and control of the U.S. Senate remain up for grabs on the morning after the U.S. election. Shortly before 3 a.m. New York time, the Associated Press said Biden had won Arizona, marking the Democratic nominee’s first victory in a state Trump won in 2016. He also picked up what could be a crucial single elector in Nebraska’s Second Congressional District. But with his own victories in Texas and Florida, Trump had a viable path to victory as well – setting up high stakes in what could become a drawn out resolution in the remaining states. Due to laws barring the processing of mail-in ballots before Election Day, election officials in Michigan and Pennsylvania have said it may take until Friday to count all the ballots. Officials in Georgia and Wisconsin said they expect their larger cities to be done counting by Wednesday. North Carolina officials said they would too, but the presidential race there remains extremely close and mail-in ballots postmarked by Election Day will be counted if they arrive by Nov. 12. Democrats easily maintained their majority in the House of Representatives, but control of the Senate is still undetermined as several races remain close, including in Michigan and North Carolina, while one race in Georgia is headed for a runoff in January. Of the Senate races called so far, Democrats Mark Kelly in Arizona and John Hickenlooper in Colorado beat Republican incumbents, while Alabama Republican Tommy Tuberville beat a Democratic incumbent. -- Ryan Teague Beckwith Pennsylvania has more than 1 million votes left to count, its Democratic governor, Tom Wolf, said in a Twitter posting early Wednesday. “I promised Pennsylvanians that we would count every vote and that’s what we’re going to do,” Wolf said on Twitter. His tweet came after Trump falsely declared victory and complained of “a fraud on the American public” in ongoing vote-counting. We still have over 1 million mail ballots to count in Pennsylvania. I promised Pennsylvanians that we would count every vote and that’s what we’re going to do. “Let’s be clear: This is a partisan attack on Pennsylvania’s elections, our votes, and democracy,” Wolf said in another Twitter post. -- John Voskuhl — With assistance by Ryan Teague Beckwith, Brentin Mock, Christopher Yasiejko, Amanda Albright, David Welch, Jeff Green, Gabrielle Coppola, Jennifer Kay, Michael Smith, Andrew Ballard, Brenna Goth, Margaret Newkirk, Michael Sasso, Alexander Ebert, Elise Young, Chris Dolmetsch, Michelle Fay Cortez, David Wethe, Laura Bliss, Sarah Holder, Shruti Singh, Keith Laing, John Harney, Jennifer Epstein, Alyza Sebenius, William Turton, and Monte Reel