Traffic travels along the M60 motorway in the U.K., where a pilot project will soon be dropping speed limits. This season, numerous European countries and regions are bringing in measures to slash speeds on the roads. In November, Spain agreed to reduce the speed limit on all two-lane urban roads to 30 kilometers per hour — or less than 20 miles per hour — from the current 50 km/h — a policy that will affect 80% of Madrid’s streets. The Dutch are close on their heels, giving preliminary approval (prior to a bill) to a 30 km/h speed limit in all built-up areas. Paris, which already has a 30 km/h speed limit across 60% of its surface area, is also currently conducting a public consultation on making that limit universal throughout the city. It’s not just urban roads that are slowing down. This September the U.K. began a pilot project on three major highways that drops the maximum speed on some sections from 70 mph to 60, a try-out for a possible nationwide limit reduction. The Netherlands has already gone yet further, introducing a 100 km/h daytime speed limit on highways in March 2020. The measures have not been greeted with universal approval. In Spain, drivers’ advocates have suggested that the new rules could make the roads less safe, in that they will require slower speeds for cars even when they are overtaking. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte called his own government’s highway speed curb a “rotten step to take.” Several of the issues these laws claim to tackle predate the pandemic, but the fact that they are being pushed through in 2020 does not seem entirely coincidental. A series of safety, environmental, economic and political factors have converged to bring this mass slowdown to the fore, with the coronavirus crisis providing perhaps the most powerful single catalyst. Many cities are simply focusing on driving and road use more intently because the proportion of urban journeys taken by car has risen, as people shun public transit due to contagion fears. The overall number of journeys of all types may have fallen sharply in Barcelona, for example, but the proportion of trips taken by car in the metro area has doubled from 27% to 52% of all trips. Rises in the death rate due to motor vehicle collisions have been an issue of growing concern for countries like Spain. Between 2018 and 2019, deaths on the streets of Spanish cities increased by 6%. Lowering speed limits from 50 km/h to 30, Spain’s interior minister noted in a press release, could reduce the risk of someone dying in a car collision by five times. In some places, Spain’s new law will go further, imposing a 20 km/h limit on streets which lack a clear delineation between roadway and sidewalk — quite a common situation in the heart of many Spanish cities due to their narrow medieval street plan. With only two hospitals and an aging population, the Isle of Man’s government has cited Covid-19 as their reason for reducing the speed limit. The need to curb pollution is also cited as the reason for highway speed limit reductions. In England, an estimated 60% of the population now live in areas with unsafe levels of nitrogen dioxide. The Netherlands’ nitrogen emissions are four times the E.U. average, prompting the country’s courts to force the government to take action. These levels could drop significantly if cars drove at lower speeds. A study of roads in Wales released in October found that a drop from 70 mph to 50 mph (twice the current pilot limit drop) cut pollution by up to 47%. Fuel efficiency, meanwhile, can also be improved by even minor reductions. The European Environment Agency found that, if the law were obeyed to the letter, a drop in the highway speed limit from 120 to 110 km/h (or 75 to 68.6 mph) could lower fuel consumption by between 12% and 18%. If that sounds familiar, it’s because saving gas was one of the main reasons for tightening speed limits back in the 1970s, when the OPEC oil crisis triggered mandatory national speed maximums in the U.K., the U.S., and Europe. But speeds have crept back up since, notably in the U.S., where rising highway limits since the 1990s are linked to tens of thousands of additional traffic deaths. Drivers became even more exuberant as congestion eased during the Covid-19 crisis: Police in the U.S. are continuing to log record numbers of speeding tickets, and deaths are rising accordingly. In the case of the current U.K. and E.U. speed restrictions, the need to ease the burden on health systems may be the most compelling rationale, especially as hospitalization rates rise to alarming new levels. Lower vehicle speeds can substantially  reduce the dangers facing road users, both inside and outside of vehicles. The sheer pressure on intensive care units across the continent has already required drastic measures, such as international patient transfers; some regions such as Britain’s Isle of Man have dropped their speed limit to lower the risk of road accident victims needing acute medical care. With only two hospitals and an aging population, the island’s government has cited Covid-19 as their reason for reducing the speed limit to an island-wide 40 miles per hour. There’s also an established connection between automotive air pollution and higher death rates from Covid-19. According to a study published in October by the European Society of Cardiology, poor air quality appears to increase the risk of dying from Covid-19 by as much as 15%. While many speed limit reductions may not come into effect until after at least the worst of the pandemic is over, Covid-19 has provided a chance to reset and rethink before normal traffic resumes. Finally, the pandemic could have caused a cluster of speed curbs to emerge at the same time for the most basic of reasons —governments are now working through delayed legislation. Covid-19 meant many non-pandemic-related decisions were put on the back burner earlier in 2020. Now governments such as Spain’s are getting round to clearing the backlog. This flurry of activity could in fact be a harbinger of wider trends in urban politics. Even as a long-dreaded winter surge arrives in some cities, others can start to imagine a near-future in which Covid-19 no longer dominates affairs. The next six months or so could prove an especially active one as local and national governments start to reset their priorities.