Ferrari NV unveiled a drop-top version of its debut plug-in hybrid, the second of what will be a series of electrified models from the Italian supercar maker. The SF90 Spider will match the 986 horsepower of its coupe counterpart, the SF90 Stradale, which debuted last year. Pricing in Italy starts at 473,000 euros ($559,000) and deliveries will begin in the second quarter of 2021. The convertible is the second model Ferrari has taken the wraps off since the pandemic temporarily closed much of the company’s operations. Chief Executive Officer Louis Camilleri has said that while the disruption forced the delay of certain models by three to nine months, orders in October were up some 30% from monthly intake seen in the first quarter and essentially in line with the end of last year. “Ferrari has managed expectations well in 2020,” Michael Dean, a Bloomberg Intelligence analyst, wrote in report Thursday. The carmaker’s decision to make up only a quarter of the 2,000 units lost to plant closures in the first half of the year “helps maintain a strong order book into 2021.” The SF90 Spider’s hard top can retract in 14 seconds. Source: Ferrari NV Deliveries will begin in 2021. Source: Ferrari NV Three electric motors augment the eight-cylinder engine. Source: Ferrari NV Ferrari said the SF90 Spider’s hard top will retract in 14 seconds and can be dropped when on the move. Its 769-horsepower, turbocharged eight-cylinder engine is augmented by three electric motors -- one at the rear and two on the front axle -- that add another 217 horsepower. Read more: For Ferrari, Less Is Still Plenty ​The drop-top SF90 shares many of the same signatures of its coupe sibling, though it does add a few design flourishes. Designers shifted the cockpit forward, lowered the roof and raked the windshield more aggressively. An active control system in the rear reduces drag by adjusting how air flows over the top of the car. Drivers can leave up a small window in the rear between the seats to help decrease wind noise when the top is down. The roof takes up just 100 liters (3.5 cubic feet) of space in the trunk, freeing up a bit more room.