President Donald Trump pulled back from a tacit concession to Joe Biden Sunday, insisting the former vice president had only won the White House in the eyes of the media, and vowing to keep fighting what he called a “rigged” election. “He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA. I concede NOTHING! We have a long way to go. This was a RIGGED ELECTION!,” he tweeted. He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA. I concede NOTHING! We have a long way to go. This was a RIGGED ELECTION! Earlier, he had sent a tweet, referring to Biden, that “He won because the Election was Rigged,” in the first suggestion that he accepted that the Democrat will be the next president of the United States. But his campaign advisor Jason Miller insisted Trump was not admitting defeat. “The president was referring to the mindset of the media. His goal remains to un-rig the election and continue exposing voting irregularities and unconstitutional election management by Democratic officials,” he said. Trump was headed by motorcade to his Virginia golf club, which is where he was last weekend when the Associated Press and networks called Pennsylvania, and therefore the presidency, for Biden. He won because the Election was Rigged. NO VOTE WATCHERS OR OBSERVERS allowed, vote tabulated by a Radical Left privately owned company, Dominion, with a bad reputation & bum equipment that couldn’t even qualify for Texas (which I won by a lot!), the Fake & Silent Media, & more! https://t.co/Exb3C1mAPg On Friday, the Associated Press and networks called the outstanding states, leaving Biden with 306 Electoral College votes to 232 for Trump, well above the 270 needed to secure the White House. Trump has vowed to fight the results in court, but his legal moves have been largely unsuccessful and do not target enough votes to overturn the result given the size of Biden’s lead in key states. Biden has been moving forward with forming an administration, but Trump’s refusal to concede has locked up millions of dollars in federal money for the transition and blocked classified intelligence briefings. On Saturday, thousands of Trump supporters gathered in Washington to rally for the president and were treated to a presidential drive-by. He later tweeted images from the event and fresh complaints about the outcome of the election, some of which were flagged by Twitter.