Selecting the next U.S. president wasn’t the only high-stakes decision in this year’s election. While those votes are still being counted, the results are in on a number of local policy and spending measures that also appeared on the ballots. There were fewer initiatives than in previous election years as the coronavirus pandemic disrupted the campaign season for ballot measures, but across the country, local referenda revealed where voters stand on issues like transportation, the decriminalization of drugs, abortion and taxes. Americans approved at least $26.7 billion in  state and local borrowing measures, more than half of the proposed bond sales on ballots across the country, while another $15.7 billion are still pending final results. The following is a non-exhaustive, state-by-state list of some of the most closely watched ballot initiatives, some of which have implications far beyond county and state borders. Proposition 21Status: Defeated Local Rent Control Initiative: The measure would have allowed cities to enact rent control on almost all rental housing first occupied more than 15 years ago by modifying the 1995 Costa Hawkins Rental Housing Act, which currently prohibits them from doing so.  It’s similar to a failed measure from 2018, indicating that residents do not see rent control as the fix to California’s affordable housing crisis. Proposition 22Status: Passed App-Based Drivers as Contractors and Labor Policies Initiative: Passing this measure allows ride-hailing and app-based delivery companies to  continue classifying their drivers as independent contractors instead of employees. It  thus exempts companies like Uber Technologies Inc., Lyft Inc. and DoorDash them from providing them particular benefits and protections. Proposition 25 Status: Defeated Replace Cash Bail with Risk Assessments Referendum: By rejecting this measure, residents voted to repeal legislation that would have eliminated cash bail and replaced it with an algorithm that categorizes suspects awaiting trial as low, medium or high risk. Justice advocates have seen that the technology does not accurately measure risk, and worried that it could lead to  racial profiling. Measure JStatus: Passed (Los Angeles)Budget Allocation for Alternatives to Incarceration Charter Amendment: The amendment allocates funding for social service alternatives to the criminal justice system, with at least 10% of general local revenue going toward these initiatives. While the measure doesn’t dictate where those funds should come from, it’s not unlikely that at least some will come from law enforcement budgets. Proposition 115 Status: Defeated22-Week Abortion Ban Initiative: The measure would have prohibited abortion at 22 weeks of pregnancy, except in cases where the mother’s life is in danger. Proposition 116Status: Passed Decrease Income Tax Rate from 4.63% to 4.55% Initiative: The measure lowers the state’s flat income tax rate by less than 1% for tax year 2020 and beyond. The policy change would provide $154 million in tax relief in fiscal year 2021-22. Amendment 2Status: Passed $15 Minimum Wage Initiative: The initiative gradually increases the state's minimum wage to $15 per hour over the next six years. Advocates say it could lift a quarter of the state's workforce, many of whom work in the service industry. Status: Defeated Illinois Allow for Graduated Income Tax Amendment:  Voters  rejected a measure that would have allowed the state to raise taxes on its wealthiest residents through a constitutional amendment that sought to scrap the flat income tax. That would have allowed the state to enact a new legislature-approved structure that would tax those making more than $250,000 at higher rates. Amendment 1 Status: PassedNo Right to Abortion in Constitution Amendment: The measures adds language to the state Declaration of Rights to clarify that it does not protect the right to abortion, nor does it require government to fund the procedure. Amendment 2Status: PassedInclude Oil and Gas Value in Tax Assessment of Wells Amendment : Voters approved a measure that could raise property taxes paid by oil producers. The amendment allows the presence or production of oil to be considered when assessing the fair market value of a well for ad valorem property tax purposes. Referendum Question BStatus: Passed (Portland)An Act to Ban Facial Surveillance by Public Officials: The measure reinforces a recent city ordinance banning the use of facial recognition software by police and other public agencies. Under this measure, residents can sue the city for illegal surveillance under that ban, and city employees can face suspension or termination for violating the ordinance. Question 1Status: PassedRight to Repair Law: Automakers are now required to  hand over proprietary mechanical data — including those transmitted wirelessly from cars to dealerships, known as telematics — to consumers and independent auto shops. Measure 1 (Initiative 65) Status: PassedMedical Marijuana Amendment: Voters overwhelmingly approved  the initiative allowing doctors to prescribe medical marijuana to patients for 22 debilitating conditions, and requires the establishment of a medical marijuana program by August 2021. Measure 3 Status: PassedState Flag Referendum: Voters supported  replacing the state’s original flag, which featured the Confederate emblem, with a new design that displays the state flower, the magnolia blossom, and a yellow star nodding to the state’s Native American heritage. The original flag flew for 126 years before it was retired in June. Public Question No. 1Status: PassedConstitutional Amendment To Legalize Marijuana: The measure passed by a wide margin,  legalizing the recreational use and possession of marijuana starting January 2021. That makes New Jersey the fourth-most-populous state and the biggest on the East Coast to do so. Measure 109Status: PassedPsilocybin Mushroom Services Program Initiative: The measure makes Oregon the  first to legalize regulated and medical use of psychedelic therapies statewide. It establishes a two-year period to set up the regulation of the measure before it goes into effect. Measure 110Status: PassedDrug Decriminalization and Addiction Treatment Initiative: The measure makes possession of small amounts of all drugs, from cocaine to methamphetamine, a minor violation, and establishes an addiction treatment program using revenue from the state’s medical marijuana program as well as cost savings from imprisoning fewer people on drug crimes. Measure 26-218Status: Defeated (Portland area)Get Moving 2020: The measure sought to enact a payroll tax on large employers to  fund transit improvements like a new rail line, a rapid bus network and bus electrification, as well as programs benefiting students and lower income communities, like free bus passes for youth and investment in affordable housing. Some racial justice advocates saw it as needed investment in communities of color, but it drew opposition from companies like Nike Inc. Proposition A and BStatus: Both Passed (Austin)Project Connect Tax Rate and Mobility Bond: Voters approved two transit-related measures. Prop A raises taxes to fund several new light rail lines and other transportation infrastructure worth $7.1 billion, and Prop B improves pedestrian and biking infrastructure with a city loan of $460 million. The votes were considered a particular win given the city’s past appetite for such plans: Similar measures failed in 2000 and 2014.  — With assistance by Tripp Baltz, Jennifer Kay, and Michael Bologna