The European Union’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier warned of “very serious divergences” with the U.K. as time to reach a trade accord runs short. With less than two weeks before the two sides say time runs out to get an agreement, they are yet to find solutions on fishing, the level playing field for business, and governance, Barnier said in a tweet after briefing member states on Wednesday. “These are essential conditions for any economic partnership,” he said. Updating @Europarl_EN & Member States on negotiations today.Despite EU efforts to find solutions, very serious divergences remain in Level Playing Field, Governance & Fisheries. These are essential conditions for any economic partnership. is prepared for all scenarios. The chief negotiator was cautious over the prospects of a deal in the coming days, according to two people familiar with Barnier’s briefing to ambassadors of the 27 EU countries. Negotiations, which started in March, broke up in Brussels on Wednesday to allow the two sides to regroup and hold internal deliberations. They’re scheduled to resume in London next week. The level playing field continues to be one of the most difficult issues, Barnier told the meeting. The U.K. is refusing to budge on its opposition to agreeing to non-regression of standards and the joint development of future higher standards, one of the people said. Barnier also told the envoys that considerable progress has been made on more minor issues, with with agreement on those items now set down in legal text. Read More: Brexit Negotiators Race to Reach Breakthrough as Time Runs Short The U.K. will leave the bloc’s single market with or without a deal when its post-Brexit transition period ends on Dec 31. Both sides say they need a minimum of six weeks to ratify any agreement in their respective parliaments. Failure to strike a deal will leave the U.K. trading with tariffs and quotas and without any cooperation arrangements in place in areas such as security, law enforcement and transport. While negotiators have made some advances on the topics of fisheries and the level playing field, including references in the agreement to the U.K.’s state-aid policy, it’s not enough to talk of a breakthrough, officials said.