Gamblers who made big bets on  the results of the U.S. presidential election are still waiting for their money. News networks on Saturday called the contest for former Vice President Joe Biden, but major betting companies are withholding payouts on hundreds of millions of wagers throughout the world. In the meantime, they’re continuing to take bets as the odds fluctuate and President Donald Trump continues to press his legal case. People have been gambling in record numbers with prediction markets and betting platforms. By the time polls closed on Election Day, London-based betting site Betfair had booked $440 million in wagers on the winner of the presidency, a figure that grew to nearly $600 million by the next day — more than double the $258 million bet on the 2016 contest. Someone — Betfair won’t say who — placed a $1.32 million bet that would pay out $2 million if Biden wins. With Trump refusing to concede and votes still being counted in several states — including a recount in Georgia — Betfair has delayed closing out bets. “We will only settle the markets when there is certainty around which candidate has the most projected Electoral College votes,” the platform said on its website. PredictIt share prices for the candidates took wild swings around Election Day. Predictit  There’s industry precedent that shows it’s prudent to wait and see. In 2016, a decision by Irish betting site PaddyPower backfired when it  paid more than $1 million — before Election Day — to people who thought former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton would defeat Trump. Gambling on politics is technically illegal in the U.S., but New Zealand-based platform  PredictIt has been granted an exemption by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The platform, started by Victoria University of Wellington as a research tool, hosts futures-trading markets that are considered academic research. On PredictIt, more than 117 million shares had been traded by Election Day, compared with 47 million for the 2016 contest between Trump and Hillary Clinton. That figure rose to nearly 122 million this week. PredictIt won’t close its markets until recounts and any litigation by both campaigns are finished, said Brandi Travis, chief marketing officer for Aristotle International, a firm that provides support for the platform. “Once we have all the electoral counts in and we see that there is a legitimate winner, we’ll suspend the market,” Travis said, “but until we’re sure we’re not going to pay out.” This means gamblers could be waiting weeks, if not months, to receive their winnings. “It’s bad for the country, and it’s bad for our site,” Travis said of the uncertainty. Robert Barnes, an attorney who gained notoriety for his bid on Trump to win the 2016 election, made scores of bets totaling more than $120,000 this year, he said. (PredictIt limits bets to $850 worth of shares on a given political outcome.) In addition to betting on which presidential candidate would reach 270 electoral votes, he wagered on the winner of individual states, the margin of victory, as well as on various house and senate races. “Trump and the Republicans beat expectations across the board,” Barnes said, referring to polls that had predicted Republicans would lose handily in both the presidential election and in downballot races. “So no matter what happens with the outcome of the presidential race, it paid off.” There has been a flurry of action in recent days on PredictIt, with Trump’s shares increasing to 16 cents on the dollar from a low of 8 cents on Nov. 7. This fits with the trend of prediction markets consistently overrating Trump’s chances this year compared with election forecasters like FiveThirtyEight, according to Derek Phillips, a professional political gambler. “It’s kind a rebound from Trump’s 2016 win, where gamblers just refuse to look at any polling data that suggests he might be in trouble,” said Phillips, who bet on Biden this year. “I just take advantage of the overprice and hope lightning doesn’t strike twice.”