We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Britain’s estimated transmission rate is signaling the virus is no longer spreading exponentially. That’s the first such reading since early September. Austria will share vaccine doses it gets under the European Union’s joint procurement with the nearby countries of the Western Balkans. Malaysia agreed to use Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine for 20% of its population, while Russia hopes to start supplying its shots next month to Hungary. Ireland, the first western European country to reimpose a lockdown, is set to ease coronavirus curbs later on Friday. Germany’s patients in intensive care rose to record levels. AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine looks like it’s headed for an additional global trial as the drugmaker tries to clear up uncertainty around favorable results in its current study. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Government scientists estimate Britain’s nationwide transmission rate for the outbreak, or ‘R’ number, has fallen to 0.9-1.0. The measure is below 1 for first time since Sept. 4, which would mean the virus is no longer spreading exponentially. “The estimated growth rate means the number of new infections is shrinking by between 0% and 2% every day,” the government said in a statement. Austria will share the vaccine doses it gets under the European Union’s joint procurement with the nearby countries of the Western Balkan, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said. The country is entitled to 2% of the EU’s vaccine order, which is probably more than needed domestically. The country’s Austria’s 7-day incidence of new cases fell for a 14th day, bringing the reproduction number down to 0.87, the lowest level since June. The country still recorded 400 new cases per 100,000 in the last 7 days, significantly more than neighboring Germany. Russia hopes to start supplying vaccines next month to Hungary, the first European country that received samples and documents of the Russian treatment. Russia also invited Hungarian doctors to observe testing and production in its local laboratories, Health Minister Mikhail Murashko said after meeting Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto in Budapest. Talks between the two countries include technology transfer to potentially produce the vaccine in Hungary. Cyprus imposed a national nighttime curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. The measure, along with other restrictions, will apply Dec. 1-14. If the situation doesn’t improve, then the government will need to take further protective measures, Health Minister Konstantinos Ioannou said in a televised statement. Malaysia signed an agreement with Pfizer Inc. to obtain its Covid-19 vaccine for 20% of the population, or about 6.4 million people, Science Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said. The country’s National Pharmaceutical Regulatory Agency will evaluate the vaccine for its safety and efficacy before it’s administered starting next year, the minister said in a Facebook post. U.K. researchers will begin testing a commonly available anti-inflammatory drug as part of a key trial by the University of Oxford. Colchicine will be administered to at least 2,500 Covid-19 patients in the Recovery trial, and be analyzed for its potential to reduce mortality when compared with standard of care. The trial, which has enrolled 18,000 patients so far, is expected to take several months to complete. The country reported 5,828 new coronavirus cases and 169 new deaths on Friday, the highest daily increases since the outbreak began. Indonesia seeks to counter the pandemic with vaccines. Now, as the coronavirus spreads across its vast archipelago, pressure is building to get them to 270 million people living on 17,000 islands. Ireland, the first western European country to reimpose a lockdown, is set to sign off on an easing of coronavirus curbs on Friday. Prime Minister Micheal Martin will lay out a plan, which is likely to include reopening most stores, gyms and cinemas in coming days, after his cabinet finalizes the details. Bars serving food are likely to reopen, but so-called “wet pubs,” which serve only drinks, may remain closed. The government is also expected to relax a 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) curb on movement from home. In contrast, across the border, Northern Ireland is moving to introduce new curbs, including the closure of non-essential stores. The country’s cabinet will decide on Dec. 11 whether coronavirus curbs can be eased around Christmas, Premier Viktor Orban said on Friday on radio. While the proportion of hospitalized patients to overall infections has declined, altogether more people will need treatment as the virus is spreading and their number will reach 10,000 soon, he said. The country had 135 deaths and its 6,393 new daily cases were near a record high. Bulgaria surpassed the Czech Republic and Belgium to become the EU country with the highest number of deaths per 100,000 people over the past 14 days, according to data by the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control. The Balkan country’s Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, who recovered from the virus two weeks ago, had repeatedly rejected a lockdown until this week. The government ordered a three-week partial closing starting Friday night -- schools, restaurants, gyms and shopping centers will be closed, while private events are limited to 15 people. Tokyo posted its highest one-day number of coronavirus infections to date, with 570 cases recorded, on the final day before a request for bars and restaurants to close early comes into effect on Saturday. Some of the increase is likely due to a three-day weekend through Monday, which typically delays testing and recording of cases. The seven-day average of cases stands at 411, still lower than earlier in the week. The city also reported the most tests ever conducted in a single day, at almost 10,000. Severe Covid-19 cases in the capital, which the local government is tracking closely as its yardstick for requesting restrictions on businesses, rose to 61 from 60 the day before. Russian Direct Investment Fund, which is involved in developing Sputnik V vaccine against the coronavirus, announced an accord with Hetero under which Indian company will produce 100 million doses a year of the inoculation. Separately, India’s Zydus Cadila’s vaccine is likely to enter phase III trials next month and a launch is expected by March if things go according to the plan, The Economic Times reported. South Korea will decide soon whether further tightening of social distancing rules is needed as the nation reported more than 500 daily cases for second day, a health ministry official said. As the coronavirus resurges in Japan, politicians and experts are growing more divided on the impact that a subsidy program encouraging people to travel is having on the spread of Covid-19. The popular “Go To Travel” campaign, which discounts trips to boost regions hit hardest by a lack of tourists, is one of the government’s most prized projects for spurring the economy, and has been heavily backed by Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. Health Secretary Matt Hancock asked the U.K. medical regulator to potentially bypass its European Union counterpart and approve the supply of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid vaccine to speed its deployment. Matt Hancock on Nov. 26. Source: UK Parliament/Jessica Taylor AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine looks like it’s headed for an additional global trial as the drugmaker tries to clear up uncertainty and confusion surrounding favorable results in its current study. The company wants the new test to confirm the 90% efficacy rate that the shot showed in a portion of an existing trial, Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said. It’s favoring that option rather than adding an arm to a separate study that’s already underway in the U.S. California reported 14,640 new cases on Thursday, bringing the total for the state to 1.2 million, behind only Texas in the U.S. It also reported 104 new deaths, boosting the number of fatalities to 18,979. Cars line up at a Covid-19 drive-thru testing site in Los Angeles, California, U.S., on Nov. 23. Photographer: Bing Guan/Bloomberg The Golden State has raised concerns about the recent surge in cases. Its positive-test rate is now 6.1%, hovering at the highest level in three months. The number of available ICU beds also is near the lowest in four months as more patients are hospitalized. The state at the center of Australia’s worst coronavirus outbreak has gone 28 days with no new cases of the virus, an enviable record as the U.S. and many European countries grapple with surging infections or renewed lockdowns. Pedestrians with and without protective masks outside Flinders Street railway station in Melbourne, Australia, on Nov 25. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg One of the world’s strictest and longest stay-at-home orders enabled Victoria to crush community transmission after a daily peak of about 700 cases in early August. The success means Australia will be among a handful of western nations that can look forward to Christmas with limited restrictions on family gatherings and what authorities are calling a Covid-normal summer. Hundreds of thousands of Argentines took to the streets of Buenos Aires to mourn Wednesday’s death of soccer icon Diego Maradona, upending the nation’s strict Covid restrictions. People wait in line to pay tribute to the late Diego Maradona, outside the Casa Rosada presidential palace in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on Nov. 26. Photographer: Pablo E. Piovano/Bloomberg Pent-up emotions after eight months of curbs spilled over as people streamed into the palace known as Casa Rosada and police clashed with crowds in and around the Plaza de Mayo. France’s hospitalizations and virus patients in intensive care continued to fall from their Nov. 16 peak on Thursday, with the number of severely ill patients in ICU at the lowest in more than three weeks, dropping 130 to 4,018. Health authorities reported 13,563 new confirmed cases, with the seven-day average falling to 13,910, the lowest since early October. France is on track for new infections to drop to an average of 5,000 a day in the second week of December, the target set by the government as one of the conditions for lifting lockdown measures, Health Minister Olivier Veran said. The total number of coronavirus cases in Germany topped 1 million for the first time Thursday, one day after the government extended a partial shutdown until just before Christmas. A medical worker takes a throat swab sample from a passenger at a testing station at Berlin-Brandenburg Airport on Nov. 26. Photographer: Maja Hitij/Getty Images Europe’s biggest economy passed the grim milestone around 10 months after the country reported its first infections. Cases have tripled since the start of October, causing the number of patients in intensive care to climb to record levels. The number of patients in Italy’s intensive-care units fell to 3,846, the first decline in seven weeks, and new infections dropped 20% from a week ago, adding to signs that the virus is spreading more slowly in the country. Numbers in New York show no sign of letting up. Hospitalizations in the state topped 3,000 to their highest level since June 1, while new infections hit 6,933, the highest tally for seven months. — With assistance by Todd White, Rob Verdonck, Marton Eder, Dara Doyle, Henry Meyer, Ravil Shirodkar, Sotiris Nikas, Piotr Bujnicki, Boris Groendahl, and Carla Canivete