Plywood capital: Fear of election-related disruption has made downtown D.C. a sea of boarded-up storefronts, adding a new economic stress for business owners. Photographer: Daniel Slim/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Daniel Slim/AFP via Getty Images The District of Columbia prepared for the worst on Election Day. Fearing unrest, many downtown businesses shut their doors on Nov. 3, some with plans to stay closed through the end of the week. In a scene familiar from protests over the summer,  property owners boarded up windows at shops, hotels and restaurants. A memo from leaders at downtown George Washington University told faculty and staff to prepare for Election Day “as you would for a hurricane or a snowstorm.” In many other major U.S. cities, downtown retail districts also hunkered down behind plywood, a practice that has become increasingly routine in a difficult year. But it’s a costly exercise. Plywood prices are up and supply is low; add in the cost of labor — especially labor that is very suddenly in demand — and boarding up the windows of a modest storefront business could cost as much as $1,500, according to the Downtown D.C. Business Improvement District. And the expenses only go up from there. Property owners with larger storefront operations spent between $7,000 and $10,000 to board up their windows, according to Gerren Price, director of storefront operations for the Downtown D.C. BID. The costs depend on a lot of factors, namely whether building owners decided to do it themselves or hire contractors. Some owners have been able to reuse the plywood that they put up in June when protesters clashed with police during Black Lives Matter demonstrations. “Of course, the cost to replace the glass can be much more expensive,” Price says — which is why one prominent downtown hotel with multiple first-floor windows and complicated entrances paid $15,000 to batten down the hatches. For D.C. business owners forced to shutter out of precaution or facing diminished sales due to unrest anxieties, the election brought yet another week of disruption in a year marked by pandemic- and protest-related challenges. A fresh quarterly report from the BID finds that economic activity in October stood at only 18% of its 2019 levels. That’s a dismal figure — but an improvement from July, when that figure was at 12%. The bump in economic activity was driven in part by returning workers: 10% of downtown office workers are back in their offices now, up from 5% in July. That’s a 100% increase! But circumstances keep conspiring to keep tourists away and workers home. Besides the coronavirus caseload itself there’s the ongoing uncertainty around the presidential election and the coming inauguration. Local businesses don’t see the share of downtown workers rising before the year’s end, according to Gerry Widdicombe, director of economic development for the Downtown D.C. BID. “Getting from 10% to 25% would be a huge boost for sandwich shops, hair salons, dry cleaners, all those services,” Widdicombe says. Downtown relies on business from office workers more than other, more housing-dense parts of the city. “We probably have the only liquor stores in town where the sales are down.” Business owners are anxious to see local health statistics improve. But as of Nov, 4, community spread of Covid-19 in D.C. reached its highest point since the first wave receded locally in early June. Spiking coronavirus counts could imperil efforts by downtown shops and restaurants to reopen and  winterize. Retail vacancy in D.C. reached a record high of 18% in October. With no relief in sight, some landlords have put restaurants and other businesses on percentage leases, which allow the renter to pay a portion of their revenue, instead of fixed leases, so that landlords still get a share of something, rather than nothing. Other U.S. cities are also struggling to survive a pandemic downturn that has been particularly hard on business districts. Hotel occupancy in New York is below 10%, with some of the hardest hit located in the tourism center of Manhattan’s Midtown South area. Center City in Philadelphia and the Loop in Chicago are also suffering increased office vacancy and decreased retail business. The economic sting of the pandemic is widespread. So were the protests upending business as usual after the deaths of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor at the hands of police. There are also some reasons for optimism in D.C., according to the BID report: 19 development projects totaling $2.3 billion are still on track, including a new Johns Hopkins University building at the site of the former  Newseum. (Disclosure: Mike Bloomberg, the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, contributed to the purchase of the Newseum building.) There’s more capital in the pipeline, pending greater certainty on the health front, Widdicombe says. Until the pandemic recedes, however, economic activity in America’s downtowns will continue to be depressed. A new study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention finds that working in an office could double an employee’s chances of contracting coronavirus — bad news not only for white-collar workers and employers but also for the coffeeshops, restaurants and business-district services that rely on their patronage. Political unrest and the ongoing reckoning over racism and police brutality are making the future even harder for D.C.’s business owners to predict. One sign of these uncertain times: A year ago, the Cheesecake Factory signed a lease for a new restaurant at 15th and H Streets NW, just a block from Lafayette Square, where police tear-gassed anti-racism protesters in June and where gatherings of election-related demonstrations have been convening every night this week. While the restaurant had planned to open in first half of 2020, there’s still no cheesecake in sight. “One reason the Cheesecake Factory wants to be there, that’s right in line where the tourists are going from the National Mall to the White House,” Widdicombe says. “You have to take the bad with the good.”