Air France-KLM’s Dutch arm will get a 3.4-billion-euro ($3.8 billion) bailout from the Netherlands after weeks of wrangling over how much help the carrier needed to ride out the coronavirus crisis. KLM will receive 2.4 billion euros of state-backed commercial funding and 1 billion euros in direct government loans, Dutch Finance Minister Wopke Hoekstra said in a letter to parliament Friday. The airline faces job cuts and environmental curbs on its operations in return for the rescue. The Dutch move follows a 7 billion-euro bailout of Air France and hammers home the reliance of Europe’s biggest airlines on state aid to get through the slump. It comes a day after Deutsche Lufthansa AG won shareholder approval for a 9 billion-euro German package. Both France and the Netherlands own shares of Air France-KLM, the region’s second-biggest carrier after Lufthansa. “The financing package is necessary to secure the long and difficult road of recovery,” KLM chief Pieter Elbers said in a statement. “We will be working on the restoration of the route network and the development of the restructuring plan and the far-reaching conditions that have been imposed.” Shares of Air France-KLM traded 6.3% higher at 9:06 a.m. in Paris, paring the stock’s decline this year to 56%. The Dutch support has several strings attached, with KLM required to cut the number of night flights by 20% to reduce the impact of aircraft noise for residents around Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport, take steps to encourage rail travel, and half CO2 emissions by 50% per passenger by 2030. KLM must also halt dividend payments in return for the taxpayer money, and Hoekstra said job cuts are inevitable as part of a restructuring program that will also see salary reductions and a scrapping of bonuses. The government will appoint a state agent with powers to intervene where necessary. Read More: Airline Bailouts Point to Greener Travel -- and Higher Fares The carrier secured the aid after the Netherlands said two months ago that it would provide between 2 billion euros and 4 billion euros of assistance. A credit line of 665 million euros granted in March will be the first draw on the new credit line will be paid down from the new facility. French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire agreed in April to provide 4 billion euros of state-backed commercial funding and 3 billion euros of direct state loans to Air France, which must curb domestic flying by 40% and also agreed to be a “good customer” for Toulouse-based planemaker Airbus SE, which is also struggling as jet orders dry up. Group Chief Executive Officer Ben Smith has started talks with unions about cutting staff through voluntary departures as seeks the exit of around 8,300 employees, people familiar with the matter have said. While governments across Europe have stepped in to help airlines, the packages from Air France-KLM and Lufthansa are by far the biggest. The Paris-based group’s aid package now totals almost $13 billion. Also Read: European Aviation’s Mounting Misery in Four Charts