Welcome to Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. South Africa has realized it can’t go it alone. For a quarter of a century after the end of apartheid, the country’s finances and economic policy have largely been run on the ideal of self-reliance and state-financed infrastructure development. There was good reason for that. Its first democratically elected government wanted a free hand to invest in housing, electricity distribution and a welfare system. And it wanted to do that on its own terms to better the living conditions of the Black majority after centuries of White domination. A near-decade of economic mismanagement under former President Jacob Zuma and the coronavirus pandemic have ended that dream. Until last week, South Africa was one of the few emerging market nations that hadn’t borrowed money from an international finance institution at the sovereign level. Now the government says it’s seeking $7 billion from multilateral lenders and President Cyril Ramaphosa this week unveiled a drive to get private companies to fund as much as $133 billion in infrastructure over the next decade. The reasons are plain to see. In an emergency budget, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni painted a best-case scenario of the country’s debt burden peaking at 87% of gross domestic product in 2024. An earlier leaked document showed it surging to 114% by 2029 without massive curbs in spending. With an unsustainable debt burden and inefficient and near-bankrupt state companies, South Africa has no choice but to hand over the much-needed development of power plants, broadband networks, port upgrades and water supplies to the private sector. And with a record budget deficit to finance and trust in government waning, it can no longer rely on capital markets alone to plug the gap. Free Trade | African nations shouldn't face any more delays in pushing ahead with a continent-wide free trade deal — even if a second wave of coronavirus infections hits the region. While the agreement entered into force legally last year, commerce due to have started on July 1 has been put off as the pandemic set back negotiations to lay the foundation for trade in goods, including tariff concessions.  When fully operational by 2030, AfCFTA could be the world’s biggest free-trade zone by area. Nigeria Banks | The World Bank warned that the banking system in Nigeria is at risk of being destabilized by the coronavirus pandemic, which might trigger the worst recession in four decades for Africa’s largest economy. Gross domestic product could contract as much as 7.4%, with the slump extending well into 2021, the lender says. That would increase non-performing loans, while dollar-denominated exposures will exert further pressure on local banks. Mnangagwa's Army | Emmerson Mnangagwa promised political reforms and a wave of foreign investment when he took power in Zimbabwe with the help of the military in 2017. Little of that has materialized and the same army has stepped in to violently quell protests against his government. An unprecedented press conference by the military leaders this month to deny they are planning a coup raised more questions than answers, with people close to the situation saying party and army leaders are losing patience with the president. Lesotho's Water | A looming water crisis in South Africa's richest region has seen villagers in a neighboring country part with land for a fraction of its value. Lesotho's state water company is laying down roads and digging tunnels in the latest step in a multi-billion dollar project to funnel resources north. The region that includes Johannesburg is forecast to run out of water within a decade without new sources. Mobile Money | The coronavirus has helped Africa’s burgeoning mobile-banking industry gain fresh momentum, with governments boosting payments through phones and reducing the physical exchange of cash.  Pioneered by Vodafone’s Nairobi-based affiliate Safaricom in 2007, mobile money has become an indispensable part of how Africa’s 1.2 billion people pay for goods and services, buy funeral coverage or borrow money, without a smartphone. Data Watch Coming Up Grammy-nominated singer Akon is launching a cryptocurrency -- Akoin -- that will be the local currency in Akon City, a 2,000-acre development in Senegal, the West African nation where he spent his early childhood. The idea was born over frustration in trying to convert some of Senegal's currency to euros after a trip to Dakar. His hope is that the venture will be adopted across the continent and beyond, with a launch likely to happen in early July, according to Jon Karas, president and co-founder of Akoin. The artist announced potential plans for Akon City in 2019 and finalized a land agreement with the Senegalese government earlier this year. — With assistance by David Malingha