Sweden’s state epidemiologist, Anders Tegnell, accused the World Health Organization of misinterpreting Covid-19 data and overstating the health risks his country faces. Germany’s infection rate fell to the lowest in three weeks, easing concerns about the risk posed by the past week’s local outbreaks. The U.S. saw a record number of new coronavirus cases, with a wave across the Sun Belt stoking concerns about the economic recovery. State health departments reported a total of more than 37,000 new cases on Thursday, led by Florida, Texas, California and Arizona. Texas paused its re-opening and Houston’s intensive-care wards reached capacity, while President Donald Trump said coronavirus deaths were “way down.” Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro said he believes he already had Covid-19. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. German Health Minister Jens Spahn said surging new infections in the U.S. show that the pandemic is yet to peak. “This is an urgent warning to us in Germany to remain vigilant,” Spahn said in a tweet. “Wherever the virus is given a chance it spreads.” The coronavirus infection rate in Germany fell to the lowest in three weeks, while the number of new cases remained well below the level at the height of the outbreak. The reproduction factor -- or R value -- dropped to 0.59 on Thursday from 0.72 the previous day, according to the latest estimate by the country’s health body, the Robert Koch Institute. There were 500 new cases in the 24 hours through Friday morning, up from 391 the previous day and bringing the total to 193,371, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That compares with almost 7,000 at the peak of the pandemic in late March. Fatalities increased by 12 to 8,940. Sweden’s state epidemiologist has lashed out against the World Health Organization, accusing it of misinterpreting Covid-19 data and overstating the health risks his country faces. Anders Tegnell, the architect of Sweden’s hands-off response to fighting the pandemic, said the WHO made a “total mistake” by putting the nation on a list that shows where “accelerated transmission has led to very significant resurgence that, if left unchecked, will push health systems to the brink once again in Europe.” The list, which includes 11 countries, fails to take into consideration the nuances in Sweden’s approach to testing, according to Tegnell. Sweden has one of the world’s highest Covid-19 mortality rates, with more deaths per 100,000 than the U.S., according to Johns Hopkins University data. Still, at no point has Sweden’s Covid crisis overburdened its state-funded universal health-care system. Deaths per 100,000 population Source: Johns Hopkins University Note: Data as of June 24 AstraZeneca Plc said it’s agreed to talks with the Japanese government on the supply of a coronavirus vaccine candidate it’s developing with Oxford University. AstraZeneca will supply Daiichi Sankyo and Meiji Holdings group companies Meiji Seika Pharma and KM Biologics with undiluted solution, and the four companies will work together on vial filling, storage and delivery. Malaysia is in talks with Singapore and Brunei to create “green lanes” for less restricted travel, as governments around the world seek to reopen their borders without a resurgence in coronavirus cases. Thailand’s prime minister, Prayuth Chan-Ocha separately said in a speech at the Asean Summit that the Association of Southeast Asian Nations nations should consider travel agreements among those who are ready to create special channels for business travelers. Air France-KLM’s Dutch arm will get a 3.4-billion-euro ($3.8 billion) bailout from the Netherlands after weeks of wrangling over how much help the carrier needed to ride out the coronavirus crisis. KLM will receive 2.4 billion euros of state-backed commercial funding and 1 billion euros in direct government loans, Dutch Finance Minister Wopke Hoekstra said in a letter to parliament Friday. U.K. Health Secretary Matt Hancock warned that he could close beaches to head off any potential new round of coronavirus cases, after summer heat saw crowds of daytrippers descend on U.K. coastal locations. Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole Council said emergency services had been overstretched after thousands of people flocked to Bournemouth’s beaches, gridlocking roads. Images posted on social media Thursday showed crowds filling the coastal town to enjoy the hottest day of the year so far. Hancock later told TalkRadio that while he’s “reluctant” to close the beaches, the government has that authority. U.S. President Donald Trump said “flare ups” of the coronavirus will be addressed as needed after data showed a record number of new cases in the country. “Coronavirus deaths are way down,” Trump also said in a tweet hailing a decline in the mortality rate. The resurgent coronavirus produced a record number of new cases in the U.S., topping the peak seen in April during the initial outbreak, after many Americans let down their guard on social distancing. Total cases in the U.S. surpassed 2,418,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University, marking the highest daily increase in more than two months. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo was sued for requiring visitors from states with spiking Covid-19 numbers to go into quarantine for 14 days after arriving.Oklahoma, where Jeffrey Jones lives in Tulsa, isn’t currently on the list of target states. But the employment lawyer says the governor’s order infringed on his constitutional right to travel freely throughout the U.S. Airline bosses are set to meet Friday afternoon at the White House with Vice President Mike Pence, the White House said. Likely topics include contact tracing, taking passengers’ temperatures at airports and potential action by the European Union to block U.S. travelers, according to people familiar with the matter. Slated to attend are the chief executive officers of American Airlines Group Inc., Delta Air Lines Inc., JetBlue Airways Corp. and United Airlines Holdings Inc., said one of the people. Separately, a trade group said American carriers will  refund the tickets of any passenger denied boarding after a screening by the government detects an elevated temperature during the Covid-19 outbreak. Airlines for America has been calling on the Transportation Security Administration to conduct temperature screenings of all airline passengers as a way to help protect travelers from Covid-19. The Asia Pacific economy will shrink by 1.3% in 2020 before bouncing back to grow 6.9% in 2021 -- implying nearly $3 trillion in lost output over the two years, S&P Global Ratings said in a report. S&P saw the risk of a “balance sheet recession” from governments, companies or households trying to bolster weak financial positions by saving more, paying down debt and spending less. Bain Capital LP agreed to buy collapsed Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. in one of the biggest single bets on the airline industry since it was shattered by the coronavirus pandemic. Administrator Deloitte named Bain as the airline’s new owner on Friday, hours after rival buyout firm Cyrus Capital Partners LP withdrew its bid. The value of the deal wasn’t disclosed, though Deloitte said there will be “a significant injection of capital” into the airline. U.K. car production plunged to the lowest level for May since 1946 after carmakers had to idle factories to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Output dropped 95% to just 5,314 vehicles in the month, according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders. Still, that’s an improvement on April, when 197 cars were built. In neighboring France, the industry group La Plateforme Automobile is expecting June car sales to approach normal levels, in a sign government incentives are helping the sector claw back from a deep slump. Vehicle registrations are on pace to be within striking distance of June 2019 results, according to Marc Mortureux, the group’s director general. The lobby is scheduled to publish its figures on July 1. Illinois is poised to allow more business and leisure activities starting Friday, after a dramatic drop in its coronavirus cases, hospitalizations and deaths from the peak, Governor J.B. Pritzker said. All regions are moving into phase four of a five-part plan, allowing movie theaters, zoos, museums, child-care centers, health and fitness centers to open or expand service. Illinois reported 894 cases and 41 deaths with a seven-day average positivity rate of 3%, down from 12% a month earlier, the state department of public health data. The state has registered 139,434 cases and 6,810 deaths. Coronavirus combat team, cleaning the Morro Santa Marta favela, Brazil on June 24. Photographer: Fabio Teixeira/NurPhoto via Getty Images Brazil reported a 3.3% rise in new cases, to 1.23 million, as deaths increased 2.1% to 54,971, the health ministry said. Sao Paulo state has 248,587 cases, 13,759 deaths. President Jair Bolsonaro said he believed he has already been infected with Covid-19. Texas added 5,996 cases in the past 24 hours, a third consecutive day of record-breaking increases, according to state health department data. The 4.8% jump exceeded the 3.9% seven-day average and brought total inflections to 131,917. Fatalities increased by 47 to 2,296, the grimmest one-day advance since May 15. The positive-test rate surged to 11.76%, the highest since April 16. A Covid-19 testing site at United Memorial Medical Center in Houston, June 25. Photographer: Mark Felix/AFP via Getty Images — With assistance by Adveith Nair, and Iain Rogers