Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. U.S. Sun Belt states are wrestling with mounting coronavirus cases, as Texas shut its bars and Miami-Dade’s mayor announced he’s closing beaches July 3-July 7. In Tokyo, cases surged to a seven-week high, with public broadcaster NHK reporting 57 new infections and the Australian state of Victoria reported another spike in new cases. Vice President Mike Pence said “remarkable progress” has been made to reopen the nation as the top U.S. infectious disease doctor pleaded for Americans to take the outbreak more seriously. Oregon lawmakers passed bills in a special session including a measure aimed at preventing foreclosures during the pandemic. The European Union is close to agreement on a policy to bar Americans from traveling to the bloc amid a spike in cases. Thailand aims to produce its own vaccine and may start human trials soon. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Germany’s coronavirus infection rate fell for a fifth straight day to a level last recorded three weeks ago, while the number of new cases remained below that at the height of the outbreak. The reproduction factor -- or R value -- dropped to 0.57 on Friday from 0.59 the previous day, according to the latest estimate by the country’s health body, the Robert Koch Institute. The estimate means that out of 100 people who get infected, a further 57 people are likely to contract the virus. The government is trying to keep the value below 1.0. There were 665 new cases in the 24 hours through Saturday morning, up from 500 the previous day and bringing the total to 194,036, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That compares with almost 7,000 at the peak in late March. Fatalities increased by 25 to 8,965. The Australian state of Victoria reported another spike in new cases Saturday, raising concerns that the outbreak may be getting out of control. The Victoria state government said 41 new cases had been detected, the biggest daily increase since early April, and 15 involved community transmission. It’s the eleventh consecutive day of double-digit numbers of infections in the state, home to the city of Melbourne. Australia has been one of the stand-out performers globally in limiting the spread of the virus and has begun to ease restrictions, but the flare-up in Victoria could potentially delay the reopening of some state borders. Plans to open a travel “bubble” with neighboring New Zealand have already been delayed as both countries grapple with virus management. Coronavirus cases in Tokyo jumped on Saturday, with public broadcaster NHK reporting 57 new infections, the most since May 5. If confirmed by authorities, that will mean daily increases in cases have exceeded 50 -- a key threshold for Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike -- in three of the past four days. More than a month has passed since Japan ended its state of emergency and began relaxing restriction requests for businesses. Cases have climbed as workers returned to trains and offices. However, authorities have been relatively relaxed about the rise given the low number of hospitalizations, with many of the cases occurring in young people. Speed isn’t the only thing that matters in the quest for a vaccine to end the Covid-19 pandemic. They may not cross the finish line first, but dozens of companies and universities still see an opening for inoculations that prevent more infections, provide lasting immunity, protect older and more vulnerable people, yield massive quantities or ship easily throughout the world. Those are benefits the front-runners may not be able to deliver. Some of the world’s most prolific and experienced vaccine developers -- Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Merck & Co. -- are among at least 100 challengers trailing the leaders. While they haven’t begun testing their experimental shots in humans, the companies are emerging as formidable contenders in the race to halt the virus. India, the third-biggest oil consumer, expects fuel demand will recover more quickly than projections by the International Energy Agencyand OPEC. “If you look at the trend of the past few weeks, I’m confident that by the end of second quarter, demand will be as usual,” India’s Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said at the BloombergNEF Summit, referring to the quarter ending September. The world’s biggest lockdown to contain the coronavirus, put in place on March 25 in India, pummeled demand for transportation and industrial fuels by as much as 70%, forcing a reduction in crude processing and oil imports by refiners. Asia, the demand center for oil, experienced an uneven recovery across the region, led by a strong rebound in China, but a second wave of infections is threatening to put the brakes on its positive trajectory. Clemens Toennies, known to Germans as a brash billionaire, is turning into a public villain after one of his meat-processing plants triggered the country’s biggest single coronavirus outbreak. Prosecutors and politicians are scrutinizing his business model after more than 1,500 people — mainly poorly paid contract workers from eastern Europe who live in cramped housing — tested positive, prompting authorities to close the plant. It’s the latest challenge for Toennies, who has previously weathered antitrust scrutiny and criticism for racist comments. The outbreak has caused a political stir in a country lauded for its virus response. Germany’s governing parties want to speed up regulatory changes to improve working conditions and hygiene. Some politicians are considering asking Toennies, dubbed the “sausage king” by German business weekly WirtschaftsWoche, to foot part of the lockdown bill. Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez is closing beaches for five days around the Independence Day weekend in response to a recent surge in Covid-19 cases. In a statement Friday, he said the July 3 to July 7 closure may be extended “if conditions do not improve.” Gimenez said he also will ban parades and other gatherings of more than 50 people during the period. “As we continue to see more COVID-19 positive test results among young adults and rising hospitalizations, I have decided that the only prudent thing to do to tamp down this recent uptick is to crack down on recreational activities that put our overall community at higher risk,” Gimenez said. Oregon lawmakers meeting in a special session in response to police use of force and the Covid-19 pandemic passed a wide range of bills Friday, including a suspension of residential foreclosures. Measures aimed at addressing income and social class inequality made more manifest by the Covid-19 epidemic were part of the focus. Among them was a bill aimed at preventing foreclosures by directing financial institutions making property loans to refrain from treating missing installment payments as a default during the pandemic from March 8 to Sept. 30, unless the emergency is extended by the governor. Lawmakers also passed a measure prohibiting residential and commercial evictions during the pandemic. Venezuela’s Information Minister Jorge Rodriguez, speaking on state television, reported 216 new coronavirus cases, bringing the country’s total to 4,779. Rodriguez reported two additional deaths for a total of 41. China reported 21 new confirmed coronavirus cases on June 26 with 17 in Beijing and the rest imported, according to the National Health Commission. Twitter is developing its automated capabilities to improve the labeling of coronavirus-related tweets, the company said in a tweet. The company will enhance the tagging process to be more precise and to show fewer labels on unrelated tweets, it said. In the past few weeks, the company has been labeling some tweets linked to additional info about Covid-19. “Not all of those tweets had potentially misleading content associating Covid-19 and 5G,” Twitter says. “We apologize for any confusion and we’re working to improve our labeling process.” Mexico’s confirmed new Covid-19 cases rose by 5,441 to 208,392, according to data released by the Health Ministry Friday night. The number of deaths in the country increased by 719 to 25,779. The European Union moved closer to recommending that travelers from the U.S. be sopped from entering the bloc even after July 1, according to a draft decision being considered by governments. Diplomats agreed on a provisional list of 15 countries, including Canada, Japan, Australia and South Korea, cleared to enter because their level of new cases meets the bloc’s safety criteria, according to a draft seen by Bloomberg. Chinese residents will also be allowed, as long as Beijing confirms that it will also let European citizens travel to China, according to the document. A decision to extend a ban on visits from the U.S., while allowing travel from China, could have geopolitical implications. The bloc’s governments have been asked to indicate by Saturday afternoon whether they agree on the proposed text, so that a formal decision can be taken. EU ambassadors met until late Friday. Thailand aims to produce its own vaccine rather than buy from abroad, and human trials could start as early as October, according to the scientist leading one project. Blood results after first injections in monkeys showed all generated antibodies, said Kiat Ruxrungtham, head researcher at Chulalongkorn University’s Center of Excellence in Vaccine Research and Development. The majority also developed neutralizing antibodies, meaning the virus can be blocked from entering or damaging cells, he said. The second dose was injected this week, and Kiat said he expects results to pass the criteria needed for human trials. If this vaccine reaches clinical trials, it’ll be among the first done outside high-income countries to reach that stage. Globally, more than 140 vaccines are being studied, of which 13 are in the clinical evaluation stage, according to the World Health Organization. U.S. Vice President Mike Pence and airline executives on Friday discussed how the carriers can safely revive business as the country reopens, the White House said. “Airline executives discussed their overall business outlook,” according to a Trump administration statement that didn’t elaborate. The discussion was expected to center on procedures related to health and safety, said people familiar with the matter. Brazil reported 46,860 new cases, a 3.8% increase, for a total of 1.27 million, according to Health Ministry’s website. Fatalities rose by 990, to 55,961. Wells Fargo & Co. will let employees work from home until at least Sept. 7, five weeks longer than anticipated, Beth Richek, a spokesperson for the bank, said in an emailed statement. “We will continue with our current operating model, which includes about 200,000 employees working from home and maintaining safety measures in locations that remain open,” she said. Firms are grappling with how -- or if -- workers will return to offices as states reopen. Many companies have said they’re surprised at employees’ ability to work remotely, and at the same time are retrofitting office spaces to enable social distancing. Dr. Anthony Fauci, a member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, appealed for the public to do more to help stop the spread of virus as the panel held its first briefing in almost two months. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said government health officials have issued guidance to follow but often “the citizenry did not feel” they wanted to do that. Dr. Anthony Fauci, White House coronavirus task force member and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Source: Bloomberg) “You have an individual responsibility to yourself but you have a societal responsibility, because if we want to end this outbreak, we’ve got to realize that we are part of the process,” Fauci said. Texas posted a 4.3% rise in new cases that pushed the total to 137,624, according to the state health department. The jump exceeded the 4.1% seven-day average. Hospitalizations increased by 7.7% to 5,102, the data showed. Earlier, Governor Greg Abbott issued a sweeping order to close taverns and force restaurants to limit occupancy to 50%, among other measures. The steps were applauded by Democratic city and county leaders who have been at loggerheads with the Republican governor for weeks over his decision to reopen the state’s economy. Bars and nightclubs “were just out of control. Not all of them but some of them,” Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said during a media briefing. Closing them “is a very positive step in the right direction.” Florida Governor Ron DeSantis dismissed the need for major changes in his plans to reopen after the state reported record new cases. Asked why he isn’t implementing new measures, DeSantis responded: “Like what?” The governor said earlier Friday the state banned on-premises bar drinking and he took steps to secure nursing homes. DeSantis, a Republican who has mimicked President Donald Trump’s lack of concern about the pandemic, showed no sign he was willing to reverse course seven weeks after reopening began. He said the growing number of young people getting the disease was an optimistic sign. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. rose by 41,925 from the same time Thursday to 2.45 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The 1.7% increase was above the average daily rise of 1.5% over the past week. San Francisco will delay reopening businesses including salons and outdoor bars on Monday because of a rapid rise in cases, Mayor London Breed said. The city saw 103 infections Thursday, up from 20 when outdoor dining and in-store retail resumed June 15, she said. “At our current rate, the number could double rapidly,” Breed said in a tweet. “If that continues & we don’t intervene, we’ll be at such a high number that our only option would be to shut down San Francisco has had a relatively low case count compared with the rest of California. One of the state’s hardest-hit areas -- Imperial County, a rural area on the border of Mexico -- is being encouraged to resume stay-at-home orders, Governor Gavin Newsom said in a news briefing. Its rate of positive tests is 23%, compared with around 5% statewide. — With assistance by Steve Geimann, Jonathan Levin, Kara Wetzel, and Joe Carroll