Prince Andrew Prince Andrew has squarely refused to cooperate with U.S. investigators probing Jeffrey Epstein’s sex crimes, a top American prosecutor said in an extraordinary public exchange. In response to a statement from the prince’s U.K. lawyers that he has repeatedly sought to talk to American investigators, U.S. Attorney Geoffrey Berman in New York said in his own statement Monday that Andrew has done nothing of the kind. “Prince Andrew yet again sought to falsely portray himself to the public as eager and willing to cooperate with an ongoing federal criminal investigation into sex trafficking and related offenses committed by Jeffrey Epstein and his associates, even though the Prince has not given an interview to federal authorities, has repeatedly declined our request to schedule such an interview, and nearly four months ago informed us unequivocally –- through the very same counsel who issued today’s release –- that he would not come in for such an interview,” Berman said in his statement. The sparring marked a dramatic twist in a months-long probe launched by U.S. prosecutors in New York. In March, Berman also said the prince was refusing to cooperate. Then, this past weekend published reports said the U.S. Department of Justice has filed a formal request with the U.K. for the prince to provide testimony as part of the probe into Epstein. That spurred Andrew’s lawyers at Blackfords LLP to challenge Berman on Monday, saying in their statement that the prince had offered to help three times since he was first approached by the U.S. on Jan. 2. “Unfortunately, the DOJ has reacted to the first two offers by breaching their own confidentiality rules and claiming that the Duke has offered zero cooperation,” according to the prince’s statement. “In doing so, they are perhaps seeking publicity rather than accepting the assistance proffered.” Read More: Prince Andrew Not Helping Epstein Probe, Prosecutor Says The dueling assertions underscore the growing pressure on Andrew as U.S. prosecutors explore the full extent of Epstein’s actions. The prince stepped away from his royal duties in November after comments he made during a television interview about his relationship with Epstein sparked outrage. He said in a prior statement that his association with Epstein has become “a major disruption” to his family’s work and that he wanted to step aside from public duties “for the foreseeable future.” Andrew’s friendship with Epstein dates back more than 20 years, and the prince reportedly flew on the the financier’s private jet and stayed at the financier’s properties. He continues to “unequivocally regret” his “ill-judged association” with Epstein, he has said. In Andrew’s statement Monday, his lawyers said they’ve been told the prince is not now and has never been a “target” of the U.S. investigation. A so-called target is a person for whom prosecutors have “substantial evidence” linking him or her to a crime and is a “putative defendant,” according to the U.S. Justice Department. Epstein died in a Manhattan prison last year while waiting to face charges that he trafficked underage girls for sex. Prosecutors have said that they continue to investigate Epstein and those who enabled his behavior. Blackfords didn’t immediately respond to an email seeking comment about Berman’s new statement.