In this pandemic recovery period, city streets are starting to look a little different. To create room for social distancing, restaurant, bar and café tables are spilling out into the street. In some cases, this means more businesses adopt a Parisian sidewalk café model. In other cities, this design skips right past the sidewalks, which need all the room they can get for socially distanced pedestrians. Instead, tables occupy parking spots and vehicle lanes, and in some cases parks or public squares. This new way of organizing street space has already been rolled out in many cities, including Vilnius, Lithuania; central Paris; the old city of Barcelona and Boston’s North End. It’s in the process of being introduced in a  host of other cities across the world this month as some urban centers tentatively emerge from lockdown.  1/ North End restaurants are back! pic.twitter.com/Rcp3Dtyzgi The footage of Boston above is the stuff of Mediterranean fantasy. Streets converted into open-air living rooms are busy but still uncrowded, and relatively fume-free. While in some places, the change means just a few new terraces sprouting in side streets, in cities such as Paris, the new tables have taken over entire streets where cars have been banned, creating a possible future template that could continue indefinitely. But the movements of these private businesses into new spaces pose new challenges about who gets to occupy outside spaces that are increasingly in demand. Reopened parks, one of the few place to freely and safely congregate during coronavirus, are frequently packed. Many streets already have sidewalks filled with lines of people waiting to enter stores enforcing a low customer capacity. Add a new range of table service businesses to this busy streetscape, and issues about who get priority come to the fore. These questions have been exacerbated in a summer of unrest when, in the most extreme of examples, racial justice protesters demonstrate against police brutality in city streets where other people sit eating brunch. Even before the pandemic, urban streets have been fiercely contested spaces. Granting bars and restaurants loopholes that allow them to serve alcohol in the street, for example, could create a situation in which paying customers can drink what they like outdoors while, feet away, people sitting drinking a store-bought beer on a stoop still attract the attention of the police. Even the regulations created to make these alcohol sales feasible, such as California’s requirements that outside terraces serving liquor are cordoned off and supervised, could effectively mean that public spaces previously accessible to all become monitored and exclusionary. “We have a painful contestation around public space in this city,” says Nick Chapman, manager of special events and street closures for the city of San Francisco. “Who can be in it, doing what on what terms. Our problems with difficult behavior in the public realm are going to be exacerbated if we try to move businesses out into those spaces. One can imagine conflicts with people who are out on our streets all the time, and these new commercial entities that want to move out.” San Francisco does have a plan, called Shared Streets, allowing businesses to apply to use parking and sidewalk space as seated serving areas. Choosing parking places in particular to convert does alleviate some tension. These spaces are, Chapman points out, already used privately as vehicle storage paid by the hour. Reserved for table service strictly during serving hours, and otherwise fully accessible to all, they would temporarily adapt existing rules on public space without twisting their intention. At the same time, some of the city’s streets have been used during the pandemic to create rudimentary campgrounds to allow homeless people to maintain social distance — sites that some citizens have successfully campaigned to have removed or reduced. It remains to be seen whether cities can avoid the worst-case scenario, in which streets become quasi-privatized preserves for paying customers granted new freedoms, while people who are homeless, protesting or simply hanging out find their right to occupy the same spaces curtailed. Some cities are already clashing with another constituency: drivers and the businesses they serve. The California city of Pacific Grove canceled a plan barring cars from downtown streets to allow space for al fresco dining just five days into its run, after businesses that didn’t offer food service complained the plan was hindering access for their customers. In Jersey City, Director of Transportation Planning Barkha Patel is working on a plan that makes eliminating parking optional. The scheme expands restaurant space in her city’s downtown through the creation of on-street parklets — low wooden platforms with planters placed in parking spaces so that, flush with the curb, they are wheelchair accessible. But she acknowledges that, in a city where cars and pedestrians have long competed for space, this plan will not suit every business. “This trade-off between parking and public space is one we have to deal with very often,” she says. “Jersey City is the most densely populated city in the U.S. after New York and San Francisco, and while we have some of the highest rates of public transit use in the country, we still have a lot of our population who are auto-dependent.” Knowing that some businesses will object, the city will be adopting an “opt-in system,” Patel says. “We’re not looking to impose this kind of intervention on people who don’t want it.” Bars and restaurants in European city centers tend to have fewer customers who arrive directly on site by car, but their street spaces are often tighter. Most streets in historic cities such as Paris and Rome do have some free curb space, used more for unloading deliveries than long-term parking. Bars and restaurants tend to cluster in pedestrian-friendly areas where it’s hard to add tables without crowding pedestrians. To manage this potential crush, Barcelona is placing limits on outdoor expansions, allowing cafes and restaurants to apply to expand their service area into the street by four to six tables — less in very narrow streets — while existing terraces can use 75% of their pre-pandemic capacity. In a period when lockdown-weary citizens are increasingly bending distancing rules, the results seem to be mixed. Laura Ninou, who co-runs a 90-year-old family tapas bar with her father in Barcelona’s El Born district, has already found city rules confusing and ill-enforced. Following city guidelines, she has placed two barrels that function as stand-up tables in front of her bar, El Xampanyet, because the space is too narrow for a full sit-down terrace. This helps for now, as the area is still quiet, but according to Ninou, other streets are already filling so fast that distancing guidelines are being disregarded. “It feels like a bit of a joke,” she says. “Right where I live, there’s suddenly a street that is completely full of tables. It’s nice, it feels festive — it’s Spain, we like to be outside — so people don’t really complain. But there are also people like my mum who is now scared to go for a walk outside because people are all passing too close to each other.” In this kind of climate, social distancing rules can be a counsel of perfection that few follow. Ninou’s bar may have made an effort to expand safely, but that doesn’t guarantee that a city fatigued by months of lockdown will maintain the careful distancing such rules are supposed to promote. After the primary concern of infection, there is also the issue of noise. Busy city neighborhoods have long been battlegrounds between those who want nightlife and those who want peace, and current street takeovers by businesses seem to be sharpening that struggle. Vilnius is an early example of what to expect. Since the Lithuanian capital allowed food and drink services to expand out into the streets of its old town in April, residents in the area have complained that nighttimes have become a noisy free-for-all. The new terraces close at 11 p.m., but with a season of warm nights, some drinkers have simply moved a few feet to other sidewalks and carried on chatting well into the night. “I think the mayor wanted the streets to be full of restaurants and cafes, but I don’t think he wanted the city to be up until 4 a.m. during quarantine,” a resident of Vilnius’ old town told Lithuanian national broadcaster LRT. “Previously, everyone who was drunk at night was inside the bars. Now all the drunk people are outside, screaming.” 