Volunteer pharmacists wearing protective masks work at a small treatment centre set up by locals in Khartoum. Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Sudan secured about $2 billion in aid pledges from international donors at a conference the impoverished country is hoping will kickstart an economic revival. The Kuwait-based Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development pledged $1 billion over five years, with the funding aimed at agriculture, irrigation and infrastructure support. The European Union offered 343 million euros ($384 million), while Germany added 150 million euros and the U.S.’s aid agency promised $356 million. The total funds, which a German delegate put at $1.8 billion in pledges and $400 million in World Bank grants, are sorely needed by a country striving to emerge from three decades of dictatorship following the overthrow of Omar al-Bashir last year. The economy is projected to shrink 8% in 2020 and reeling from commodity shortages and a plunging currency. The International Monetary Fund’s managing director, Kristalina Georgieva, said Sudan is dealing with a “very heavy legacy at the most difficult of times” with a funding gap for 2020-21 of between $1.5 billion and $2 billion. It wasn’t immediately clear if all the pledges were new, nor which would be directed to the government and which to non-governmental organizations. Some nations such as China offered bilateral and multilateral assistance while others like Poland offered debt settlements. The challenges are stark for Sudan, which is being run by a transitional government including Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok and is campaigning to have its U.S. listing as a state sponsor of terror lifted. “Mounting economic turbulence is rocking Sudan’s delicate political transition,” the International Crisis Group said this week, urging donors not to “abandon the country at this critical moment.” “Any further slide in the country’s economic fortunes will hurt the Hamdok administration’s standing with the public, possibly triggering street protests that could imperil stability,” the Brussels-based consultancy said in a briefing. The conference was held virtually from Berlin due to the coronavirus, with the European Union, Germany and United Nations co-hosting. Pledges included: