A doctor goes through an air tight curtain while entering the Covid-19 ICU at the United Memorial Medical Center in Houston, Texas, on June 29. Trump says in Twitter post that he’s ‘more and more angry at China’ over the pandemic. Anthony Fauci, the U.S. government’s top infectious disease specialist, warned lawmakers that coronavirus infections could rise to 100,000 a day if behaviors don’t change. Texas reported record new cases, while hospitalizations in California reached a new high. The European Union extended a travel ban for Americans, deeming the U.S. response to the outbreak insufficient. Prime Minister Boris Johnson committed to spend billions of pounds on infrastructure to rebuild the U.K. economy. Australian house prices fell for a second straight month in June, as the coronavirus shutdowns continue to weigh on the property market. South Korea starts supply of Remdesivir to local hospitals on July 1 after signing import contract with Gilead Sciences Korea. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Mexico reported 5,432 new confirmed Covid-19 cases, bringing the total 226,089, according to data released by the Health Ministry. Deaths rose 648 to 27,769. Grupo Aeromexico SAB, Mexico’s second-largest airline, said it filed for bankruptcy in the U.S., becoming the latest in a string of Latin American carriers to seek court protection after the Covid-19 pandemic caused a severe downturn in travel. The carrier will “continue operating and use Chapter 11 as a way to strengthen its financial position and liquidity,” according to a statement to the Mexican stock exchange Tuesday. Aeromexico said the goal will be “protecting and preserving its operations and assets and implementing the necessary operational adjustments to face Covid-19-related impact.” A U.N. body has eased a greenhouse gas reduction plan at the urging of the airline industry, which cited the coronavirus’ financial damage as an obstacle to achieving the plan’s intended targets. The Montreal-based International Civil Aviation Organization’s 36-nation council agreed to make 2019 the sole baseline year for the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation, or CORSIA, at a meeting on Tuesday. The program, which takes effect next year, originally included 2020 as a baseline. But the steep drop in airlines emissions this year when the coronavirus virtually halted some travel would mean airlines would have to offset more emissions under the program, creating an inappropriate economic burden, the organization said in a news release. South Korea will start supply of Remdesivir to local hospitals on July 1 after signing import contract with Gilead Sciences Korea, the nation’s Centers for Disease Control & Prevention said in emailed statement. The use of the drug will be limited to patients in serious conditions, it added. Australian house prices fell for a second straight month in June, as the coronavirus shutdowns continue to weigh on the property market. Home values in major cities fell 0.8% last month, accelerating from a 0.5% decline in May, according to CoreLogic Inc. data released Wednesday. The slide was led by Melbourne and Perth, where prices dropped 1.1%. In Sydney, prices fell 0.8%. While the decline in property prices from the coronavirus outbreak has been milder than initially anticipated, “the downside risks remain significant,” said Tim Lawless, head of research at CoreLogic. More than 40% of the U.S. has now reversed or halted economic re-opening moves, after steps taken across the Sun Belt in recent days, according to estimates by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists. The bank also calculated that the share of the population in states where policies are getting more restrictive up to 30% over five days. “With case growth still accelerating nationwide, states are likely to continue to take further targeted measures to attempt to mitigate virus spread and maintain available healthcare capacity at sustainable levels,” Goldman analysts including Jan Hatzius, Alec Phillips and Blake Taylor wrote in a June 30 note. China reported 3 new coronavirus cases Tuesday, and all of them are Beijing local cases, according to a statement from China’s National Health Commission. Three asymptomatic cases are reported and all of them are imported, the statement says, adding that China has 100 asymptomatic coronavirus cases under medical observation. The Japanese government is considering starting talks with China, South Korea and Taiwan as soon as this month to ease travel restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus, Asahi reports, citing unidentified government officials. Japan plans to prioritize business travelers and then open borders to students, while tourists will be the last to be allowed entry, the report says. Hopes of a swift recovery for the U.K. economy could be dashed, according to a survey that revealed the parlous state of Britain’s businesses. Measures of sales, orders and cashflow in the nation’s dominant services sector have plunged by the most in the 31-year history of the British Chambers of Commerce’s quarterly survey. Demand for goods from manufacturers also dropped in the three months through June, with sentiment in the industry sliding to the weakest level since the financial crisis. The findings add weight to concerns the economy will struggle to rebound quickly from the pandemic. Watch: Prime Minister Boris Johnson set out his vision for dragging the U.K. economy out of what may be its deepest recession in 300 years, with a program to spend billions of pounds on infrastructure. (Source: Bloomberg) “As I watch the Pandemic spread its ugly face all across the world, including the tremendous damage it has done to the USA, I become more and more angry at China,” President Trump says in Twitter post. “People can see it, and I can feel it!”, Trump says. Iran will reintroduce lockdown measures on one of its busiest port cities on the Persian Gulf following a surge in cases. Bandar Abbas, the capital of Hormuzgan province and a major trade hub on the Strait of Hormuz, is one of seven cities that will be closed for one week from Friday, Fereydoun Hemmati, the provincial governor told reporters, the semi-official Iranian Students’ News Agency reported. The islands of Kish and Qeshm, which are major tourist attractions, will also face the measures, Hemmati said, adding that the lockdown will involve the closure of all schools, universities, most offices, cinemas, coffee shops, restaurants, public pools, gyms and parks. The Trump administration’s coronavirus task force stepped up its calls for Americans to wear masks, but Vice President Mike Pence said there were no plans to override governors who have yet to require them. “Please, please, please wear a face covering when you go out in public,” Surgeon General Jerome Adams, a member of the task force, said at a White House briefing Tuesday. Watch: Vice President Mike Pence and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar urge Americans to wear masks as the coronavirus spreads. (Source: Bloomberg) Adams delivered the strongest plea to the public yet from an administration that has often sidestepped direct recommendations to wear masks. Health Secretary Alex Azar and Pence both urged wearing a mask at the same event Tuesday in Rockville, Maryland, though Pence only said to do so if local authorities recommended it. President Donald Trump has mocked his Democratic challenger Joe Biden for wearing a mask and has never publicly worn one, though he is facing calls to do so. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased by 48,096 to 2.61 million as compared with the same time yesterday, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The 1.9% gain was above the average daily increase of 1.6% over the past week. Deaths rose 0.5% to 126,512. Watch: Dr. Anthony Fauci, White House coronavirus task force member and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, tells Senator Elizabeth Warren during a Senate panel testimony that he’s concerned the U.S. is “going in the wrong direction” when it comes to containing the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. (Source: Bloomberg) Joe Biden assailed Donald Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic on Tuesday, arguing the president has failed to protect Americans and exacerbated a crisis that other countries have managed to control. Biden, the Democratic nominee, laid out his plan to fight the virus and safely reopen the economy, and he urged Trump to adopt his proposals. The moment, he said, required the president to lead and move beyond politics. “Mr. President -- the crisis is real -- and it’s surging,” Biden said. “Promises and predictions and wishful thinking pulled out of thin air are not only doing this country no good, it’s making them lose more faith in their government.” Watch: Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, criticizes President Donald Trump’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. (Source: Bloomberg) The Food and Drug Administration issued guidance on how it would assess vaccine candidates, saying it would only allow ones that are at least 50% more effective than a placebo. “The American people should know that we have not lost sight of our responsibility to maintain our regulatory independence and ensure that our decisions related to all medical products, including those related to Covid-19 vaccines, are based on sound science and the available data,” FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn told the Senate health committee on Tuesday. Infectious-disease expert Anthony Fauci also told the panel that he’s “aspirationally hopeful” that a vaccine for Covid-19 will be ready in early 2021. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced that travelers from eight additional states, including California, will be required to quarantine for 14 days when traveling to New York. California, Georgia, Iowa, Idaho, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nevada and Tennessee now meet metrics to qualify for a travel advisory, Cuomo said. There are 16 total states on the travel advisory The quarantine applies to any person arriving from a state with a positive test rate higher than 10 per 100,000 residents over a seven-day rolling average or a state with a 10% or higher positivity rate over a seven-day rolling average. — With assistance by Charlie Zhu, Kara Wetzel, and Chris Anstey