Workers bring the body of a Covid-19 victim to be cremated in Sao Paulo, Brazil on June 5. The virus continued its surge through Brazil, which reported more than 1,000 new fatalities, and Mexico, where the death toll at state-owned oil company Petroleos Mexicanos alone exceeds 100. Iran President Hassan Rouhani pleaded with the public to take social distancing more seriously following a record jump in cases. Russia, the country with the third-highest number of diagnoses, reported a 2% daily increase. Infections in India surpassed those of Italy. Nigeria got a $289 million loan from the African Development Bank to fight Covid-19. U.S. deaths rose less than 1%, and live sports and film production in California can restart as soon as June 12. A third of Americans are using disinfectants dangerously in efforts to protect themselves from the virus, including adding bleach to food, a CDC study found. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. For a look back at this week’s top stories from QuickTake, click here. Genetron Holdings Ltd., a Chinese developer of cancer treatments, said it got emergency approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to sell a test for the novel coronavirus. Chinese authroties also licensed it for export. The number of cases in Iran reached 169,425 as the country recorded 2,269 new infections overnight, slowing from a peak of 3,574 cases on Thursday. The total death toll rose to 8,209 with 75 more deaths in the past 24 hours. Iran announced the easing of some coronavirus restrictions on Saturday despite being gripped by the second wave of infections. Movie theaters and concerts will be allowed at 50% capacity from June 21. Kindergartens, language centers and other educational institutes will be allowed to reopen and domestic tours to be held as of June 13. Indonesia reported a record increase in new coronavirus cases, taking its total number of infections to more than 30,000. The country had its largest daily increase as diagnoses spiked by 993 on Saturday, the government’s Covid-19 task force spokesman, Achmad Yurianto, said at a briefing. The latest infections were driven by cases in East Java, and the death toll stands at 1,801. The record number of new cases comes as the nation’s capital Jakarta is set to ease restrictions put in place to counter the spread of the pandemic, with authorities pushing to reopen Southeast Asia’s biggest economy. A doctor prepares his PPE inside Moscow City Clinical Hospital 52. Photographer: Andrey Rudakov/Bloomberg Russia reported 8,855 cases over the last day, bringing the total number to 458,689, according to data from the government’s virus response center. The death toll increased by 197 to 5,725 people. Poland will open its border with Lithuania within days, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki told radio RMF. He said there were discussions within the European Union about giving countries a color code to show “which ones are deemed to be the most safe and those who still aren’t.” Poland was one of the bloc’s first countries to shut its borders in March. Iran President Hassan Rouhani pleaded with the public to observe social distancing measures more seriously after the country was hit by a record peak in the daily number of infections this week. The government has “no choice but to keep the factories running and the stores open” in the face of sanctions, and people should “put aside any false hope” of the weakening of the Covid-19 disease, Rouhani said in a national coronavirus briefing taskforce broadcast on state TV. Pedestrians and shoppers in Tehran on June 2. Photographer: Atta Kenare/AFP via Getty Images Vale SA was ordered by a Brazilian judge to close a series of mines at its Itabira complex in the state of Minas Gerais after 188 workers tested positive for Covid-19, Reuters reported, citing labor prosecutors who weren’t identified. Vale, in a statement, defended its efforts to limit the virus’s spread through testing and other measures, Reuters reported. A court had previously ordered the company to shut the Itabira complex in late May, but the decision was overturned, according to the report. Mexico’s state-owned oil company Petroleos Mexicanos reported seven more deaths from Covid-19 among its workers, taking the company’s total to 102. Pemex said 1,949 of its employees, retirees and their family members have been confirmed as having Covid-19. Of those, 307 have died. China warned its citizens not to travel to Australia in the latest sign of deteriorating relations. The Chinese Ministry of Culture and Tourism published a statement Friday night saying discrimination and violent behavior against Chinese and Asians are rising due to the pandemic. The warning is the latest sign of deteriorating relations between Australia and its largest trading partner after Prime Minister Scott Morrison led calls for an independent probe on the origins of the coronavirus in Wuhan. Brazil registered 1,005 new Covid-19 deaths, bringing the total to 35,026, according to data from the Health Ministry. The number of cases rose by 30,830 to 645,771. Mexico reported 4,346 new cases, bringing the country’s total to 110,026, according to Health Ministry data released Friday. The number of deaths from the virus rose by 625 to 13,170. Mexico now has 19,015 confirmed active cases and 48,822 suspected cases of Covid-19. A stretcher sits at a Covid-19 voluntary isolation facility in Mexico City, on June 5. Photographer: Jeoffrey Guillemard/Bloomberg Live sports and film production can restart in California as soon as June 12, according to state officials. The most populous U.S. state still isn’t allowing sports to have live audiences, though teams can resume training and competition. The state also said counties may move into the next phase of reopening -- including bars, restaurants and hotels -- as of June 12 if they meet certain guidelines. It issued guidance for schools to reopen in the fall, saying it plans no-touch thermometers for every facility, face shields for teachers, more than 14 million cloth coverings for staff and students, and 143,000 gallons of hand sanitizer. Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro said the government is considering withdrawing from the World Health Organization, following the move of U.S. President Donald Trump, who has criticized the agency’s handling of the outbreak. Bolsonaro told reporters on Friday that Brazil will leave if the agency continues with an ideological bias. He said the nation doesn’t need outsiders commenting on its public health matters and taking money away will help WHO change its thinking. President Donald Trump said he’ll ask Congress for more economic stimulus to boost chances of a recovery from the pandemic, even after the surprise improvement in U.S. unemployment in May. House Democrats passed a $3.5 trillion stimulus bill last month, aimed at assisting states and hospitals. But Republicans leading the Senate rejected that proposal. Trump administration officials increasingly expect to spend up to $1 trillion on new relief. Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser, told Bloomberg Television some sort of return-to-work cash incentive is possible. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.2% as compared with the same time Thursday, to 1.89 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. Deaths rose 0.9% to 108,708. New York cases rose 0.3% to 376,208, in line with the average increase over the past seven days, according to the state’s health department. The state had 42 new deaths, the lowest reported since early March. A startling number of Americans are using bleach on food or misusing household cleaners in attempts to protect themselves from the coronavirus, according to a survey published Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. An internet panel of 500 people found more than one-third of respondents “engaging in non-recommended high-risk practices” such as applying the cleaners to the skin or inhaling or ingesting them. The report doesn’t directly reference President Donald Trump’s widely denounced suggestion on April 23 that researchers should study using light or disinfectants on humans as potential interventions against the virus. — With assistance by Angus Whitley