Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Germany is looking at maintaining subsidies to protect jobs for longer as a spike in cases in recent weeks raises the specter of renewed restrictions on economic activity. Elsewhere in Europe, Italy and Spain told nightclubs to close and France’s public health agency warned that all of the country’s Covid-19 indicators are trending upward. Singapore announced an additional $5.8 billion in fiscal stimulus to cushion the economic fallout from the pandemic. New Zealand delayed its national election by four weeks because of concerns over its coronavirus outbreak. Hong Kong extended its social distancing measures for a week. U.S. fatalities exceeded 1,000 for the fifth consecutive day, though cases slowed. Australia had its deadliest day, and India’s fatalities topped 50,000. A cluster of infections from giant churches in South Korea is reviving concern the country could again become a hotspot. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz proposed extending subsidies to preserve jobs to 24 months. The measure would cost the government an extra 10 billion euros ($12 billion). The country relaunched short-time compensation to shield workers and companies from massive job cuts during the pandemic. The benefit, normally limited to 12 months, initially covers as much as 67% for households with children and gradually increases over the months. Travel companies were among Europe’s main fallers in the stock market on Monday, extending Friday’s declines, after Covid-19 restriction updates from key tourist destinations. TUI AG has canceled tours to Spain and the Balearic Islands until Aug. 24 on German government advice to avoid non-essential travel there. Its shares were down more than 4% on Monday after an 8% drop on Friday. Singapore is set to pump in an additional S$8 billion ($5.8 billion) in fiscal stimulus to cushion the economic fallout from the pandemic, Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat said in a speech to the nation. The latest measures are to support jobs and create new ones, provide further support for sectors that are hardest hit, as well as position the country for growth opportunities in a post Covid-19 world, Heng said. The new measures are to be funded by reallocating funds from other areas, such as development expenditures that were delayed due to the pandemic. Hong Kong’s government extended all existing social-distancing measures for a week to Aug. 25. The measures include an evening dine-in ban at restaurants from 6 p.m. to 4:59 a.m., a two-person limit at tables, a two-person public gathering limit and mask requirements. “At present, the severe epidemic situation does not allow any room to relax the social distancing measures,” a spokesman said in a statement. Hong Kong should get prepared for a possible winter surge or a fourth wave coinciding with the usual flu season, the spokesman said. The Philippines is looking to further reopen its economy even as coronavirus infections continue to rise, after a poll showed adult unemployment was at a record high last month. The government wants to allow more economic activity and extend aid to small businesses after 27.3 million Filipinos in a Social Weather Stations survey in early July said they were jobless, presidential spokesman Harry Roque said. President Rodrigo Duterte will announce either an extension or easing of the restrictions before the tightened curbs implemented in metropolitan Manila and nearby provinces lapse on Tuesday, Roque said. Novavax Inc. announced the beginning of a Phase 2b clinical trial in South Africa to evaluate the efficacy of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate. Dr. Shabir Madhi, professor of vaccinology at Wits University, will lead the trial, which is supported in part by a $15 million grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Danish Crown, Europe’s biggest pork exporter, will reopen an abattoir in Denmark after an outbreak of Covid-19 among staff was brought under control. Danish Crown shut down the plant a week ago after more than 140 of its 850 workers tested positive for the virus. That figure has since steadily fallen and the company said on Sunday it had registered about new 20 cases in the past week. The outbreak at the plant, which normally processes about 62,000 pigs weekly, has led to a halt in exports to China. India reported 941 additional fatalities, bringing the country’s death toll above 50,000. India has the fourth-highest number of fatalities globally, after it last week surpassed the U.K.’s tally. The spread of Covid-19 continues to accelerate through the world’s second most populous country, with the total number of confirmed case at more than 2.6 million, the third most in the world. Air crew of Singapore carriers who return from overseas from Aug. 20 will have to undergo Covid-19 testing on top of existing health and safety protocols already in place, the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore said. There have been no positive cases among air crew of Singapore carriers for more than three months. Australia has approved a pilot program for 300 international students to enter the country, providing a potential lifeline to the A$38 billion ($27 billion) sector that’s been smashed by the pandemic. South Australia had been preparing for the arrival of around 800 students under an earlier proposal in July, but the plans were delayed by an outbreak of Covid-19 in neighboring Victoria and the closure of state borders. Similar pilot programs in Canberra and Victoria were also postponed as surging cases in Melbourne alarmed the nation. South Korea reported 197 more cases of coronavirus on Monday, amid a flareup of infections. The country warned over the weekend of another mass infection after reporting the highest number of coronavirus cases since early March, most of which are linked to an outbreak at a church in the capital. Malaysia has detected a strain of the new coronavirus that’s been found to be 10 times more infectious. The mutation has become the predominant variant in Europe and the U.S., with the World Health Organization saying there’s no evidence the strain leads to a more severe disease. A paper published in Cell Press said the mutation is unlikely to have a major impact on the efficacy of vaccines currently being developed. Australia had its deadliest day in the pandemic, with 25 fatalities in the state of Victoria. The nation’s second-most populous state, which has imposed a lockdown and nighttime curfew in its capital Melbourne, on Monday also reported 282 new cases in the past 24 hours, down from daily tallies in the 700s in late July. Victoria is isolated from the rest of the nation as other states have closed their borders -- threatening to deepen and prolong the economic recession. On Sunday, Victoria’s government announced it will extend a state of emergency until mid-September. The Amnesia nightclub, which remains closed, in Ibiza on July 30. Photographer: Jaime Reina/AFP via Getty Images Spain will start shutting nightspots this week after they were blamed for spikes in cases that triggered new travel warnings. Suspending operations again was one of 11 measures Spain’s regional governments agreed to take to curb the fastest virus growth rate among Europe’s major economies. Italy also ordered nightclubs to close and broadened rules on wearing protective masks. Coronavirus patients in Texas hospitals fell to 6,267, the lowest in seven weeks. Another 143 deaths were reported, to just under a total of 10,000 fatalities. The state added 6,204 new cases, fewer than the previous day, for a total of 535,042. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has delayed the general election by four weeks until Oct. 17 as a community outbreak of Covid-19 worsens. A fresh outbreak of the virus in Auckland has seen the largest city locked down since Aug. 12 with people urged to stay home and consumer-facing businesses shut. The city, home to almost one third of the nation’s 5 million citizens, is a key battleground for Ardern as her Labour Party seeks a second term. — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland