Jerome Powell speaks during the Jackson Hole economic symposium seen on Aug. 27. The Treasury yield curve steepened after Jerome Powell signaled the Federal Reserve will stay accommodative for longer as it shifts to a more tolerant approach on inflation. The dollar headed for its biggest decline in a month against a basket of peers. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated as the euro strengthened. U.S. index futures edged higher after the S&P 500’s fresh all-time closing high. Japan’s benchmark Topix Index dropped and the yen jumped on news Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will resign due to health reasons. Abe is expected to address a news conference later Friday. Powell’s shift gave traders a green light to sell long bonds, which are more sensitive to inflation, with the U.S. yield curve steepening to the widest in two months. It also provided another tailwind for stocks globally, which are heading for a fifth week of gains as technology shares continue to push higher and investors monitor progress on vaccine developments for the pandemic. “Monetary policy is likely to stay accommodative for even longer,” said Tai Hui, chief Asia market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management. “Not only will the Fed need to provide sufficient support to help the economy through the pandemic fallout, but also policy rates should be kept low beyond that to generate sufficient inflationary pressure.” Bonds fell in Europe along with longer-dated Treasuries, with U.S. 30-year yields adding as much as six basis points to its 10 basis-point move from Thursday after Powell said the Fed will seek inflation that averages 2% over time. The step that implies allowing for periods of overshoots. Gold advanced. Elsewhere, crude oil steadied as Hurricane Laura weakened while crossing over land in the refinery and LNG-rich Gulf of Mexico region. Here are some key events coming up: Bloomberg’s Molly Smith reports on what the Federal Reserve’s shift in policy means for the credit market. Source: Bloomberg Here are the main market moves: — With assistance by Adam Haigh, and Liz McCormick