Photographer: John Moore/Getty Images Photographer: John Moore/Getty Images Finland’s prime minister is being tested for coronavirus while Germany recorded the highest number of new cases in almost four months, adding to concern about renewed curbs on people’s movement in Europe. The U.K., the continent’s hardest hit country, reported the lowest tally of deaths in 20 weeks as retailer Marks & Spencer Group unveiled plans to cut about 7,000 jobs over the next three months. Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the world’s biggest, lost $21 billion in the first half of the year. Hong Kong’s government will roll out a third round of anti-epidemic measures, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said. A flareup in South Korea continued to grow, with 246 more cases reported Tuesday, and the country banned large gatherings in and around Seoul. In the U.S., the Democrats opened their virtual national convention with broadsides against President Donald Trump over his handling of the pandemic and the shattered economy. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Finland’s prime minister, Sanna Marin, moved to working from home on Tuesday and is getting tested for Covid-19 after experiencing mild respiratory symptoms, she said on Twitter. The 34-year-old leader told local media that she’d caught the cold from her young daughter who had recently returned to daycare. Austria is reevaluating its border regime as new infections continue to rise, driven by summer holiday returnees from regions including the former Yugoslavia. Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and the interior and health ministers may announce new testing capacities for border checks or new travel warnings at a briefing after their meeting on Tuesday. The country last added Croatia to the list of risky countries, which means people returning from the popular summer destination must provide negative tests or quarantine when they return. England and Wales recorded the fewest fatalities for 20 weeks. Deaths in the week ended Aug. 7 fell 21% to 152 compared with a week earlier, based on figures compiled by the Office for National Statistics where Covid-19 is cited on the death certificate. Scotland, which reports its data separately, also has seen the weekly death toll drop to its lowest since March. A study by the ONS also published on Tuesday found that the percentage of people suffering with depression has doubled since the coronavirus forced a lockdown of the country in March. Hong Kong reported 35 new local coronavirus cases on Tuesday, a Department of Health official said at a briefing. The pace of daily new infections signals that the outbreak is gradually tapering off under strict social distancing rules. The death toll stood at 70. About 90% of the Covid-19 fatalities in the Asian financial hub took place since a resurgence started in early July. Norway’s sovereign wealth fund suffered as a rebound in stock markets wasn’t enough to erase its record decline earlier this year. The Oslo-based fund declined 3.4%, or 188 billion kroner ($21 billion) in the first half of the year. Deputy Chief Executive Officer Trond Grande said in a statement that “we are still witnessing considerable uncertainty.” Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak will take part in the OPEC+ Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee meeting on Wednesday, despite contracting the coronavirus. Novak will join the meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies via video-link, his spokeswoman Olga Golant said by phone. Novak tested positive while in Russia’s Far East and has returned to Moscow, according to Golant. Marks & Spencer Group will embark on a multi-level consultation program that it anticipates will result in a reduction of 7,000 roles. The cost of the program including redundancies will be reflected in first-half results. Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun will deliver speech at 5 p.m. local time to announce strengthened virus prevention measures, Yonhap news agency reported. Vice Health Minister Kim Kang-lip earlier said Seoul Metropolitan area is now at early stage of mass infections and this week will be a critical juncture for the country’s virus fight. Amit Shah, a close aide to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been hospitalized for post-virus care. Shah, who tested negative for coronavirus, has been complaining of fatigue and body aches for the past three to four days, the hospital said. Shah, who was earlier admitted to a hospital on Aug. 3 after testing positive for Covid-19, was discharged last week. Germany recorded the highest number of new coronavirus cases in nearly four months, and the infection rate held above the key threshold of 1.0. There were 1,693 new infections in the 24 hours through Tuesday morning, the most since April 25 and bringing the total to 226,700. Democrats opened their virtual convention on Monday with an evening of sharp attacks on President Trump and vocal support for Joe Biden, including from four moderate Republicans and Biden’s primary opponent, Bernie Sanders. The daughter of a Covid-19 victim blamed Trump for his death in a brief appearance. Hong Kong Chief Executive Lam has asked the chief secretary and financial secretary to draw up details in the short term. The government will also take new applications for its employment subsidy program beginning on Aug. 31. Lam will give her annual policy address on Oct. 14 and will attend a Q&A session at the legislature the next day. Researchers at the University of Sydney have found a link between lower humidity and increased spread of the coronavirus in Australia, estimating that transmission rates could double if the relative humidity drops by 10%. Aerosols expelled when someone sneezes or coughs are larger and heavier in humid air, allowing the particles to fall to the ground faster, according to researchers. In drier conditions, the aerosols are smaller and may linger for longer periods in the air. Health officials have expressed concern over a possible surge of cases when cooler weather returns to the Northern Hemisphere. People wear protective masks while shopping at a wet market in the Old Quarter in Hanoi, Aug. 15. Photographer: Linh Pham/Bloomberg Hanoi’s deputy mayor, Nguyen Van Suu, urged authorities to ask residents to avoid leaving their homes for non-essential reasons as the risk of a city-wide virus outbreak is a concern, according to a post on the city government’s website. South Korea found 246 more confirmed coronavirus cases in 24 hours, up from 197 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. The country warned over the weekend of another mass infection after reporting the highest number of coronavirus cases since early March, most of which are linked to an outbreak at a church in the capital. — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland, Lisa Du, and Anand Krishnamoorthy