Cathryn Virginia Cathryn Virginia When Disney World shut down on March 15, Adrien Love realized he was in trouble. Many of the tenants living in his Orlando-area rental properties are waitresses and hairdressers, people whose livelihood flows from entertainment and tourism. With the House of Mouse closed for business, keeping up with collections was going to be a problem. In April, Love says most of his tenants couldn’t get unemployment benefits because the state website kept crashing. Several came to him then to say they needed to make an arrangement. Love says that he is sympathetic to their predicament — he is a former bartender himself — so he obliged. But spotty communication with a few renters made him nervous. Rent collections at the 13 single-family homes that Love owns were down 30% over the course of the pandemic before he was forced to sell one. Under federal and state rent protections, Love could have filed an eviction at any point, though he would have to wait for it to be processed under a Florida moratorium. So far, he hasn’t taken that step. He’s surprised that the owners of other properties he manages haven’t either. Given the scope of the crisis, he expected to see more evictions by now. Waiting for this economic disaster to arrive, Love says, feels like being Marvin the Martian, the frequently blown-up Warner Bros. cartoon character. “You stick your fingers in your ears and press down on the dynamite. There was supposed to be a kaboom. Where’s the earth-shattering kaboom?” Indeed, the U.S. is bracing for an earth-shattering kaboom of evictions. With Congress on recess after the collapse of negotiations for another pandemic spending package, millions of households across the U.S. now face an acute level of precarity. The end of the federal eviction moratorium and the lapse of the federal $600-per-week boost to unemployment benefits, paired with the worst economic downturn since the Great Recession, has housing advocates worried that disaster has arrived. So far, though, a widely anticipated “tsunami” of evictions has yet to crest the shores of American cities. Across the country, eviction filings are low — far below historical levels in many places. Even in states that never issued their own eviction protections, and in cities where so-called rocket dockets typically process hundreds of evictions per day, eviction filings have not spiked, according to data on 17 cities from Princeton University’s Eviction Lab. On the one hand, a downturn in eviction is to be expected: Eviction filings plunged in March as courthouses closed for lockdowns and lawmakers rushed out emergency measures. On the other hand, several of these measures have now expired, and many tenants were never protected by any of these measures in the first place. The data raises a question: What if there isn’t actually a tsunami? What if a wave of housing insecurity takes a different shape than some projections might have imagined? Comprehensive data for evictions are not available at a national level or indeed for most states or localities. As of early August, the broad trend across this sampling of cities is similar, though, despite wide variation in the reach of pandemic protections, legal regulations and the availability of aid: There’s been little increase in eviction filings or sustained spikes since March. With a few exceptions, every week of the pandemic summer through August 7 has seen fewer eviction filings than on average for the 17 cities where researchers at Princeton are publishing data. Eviction filings are down in Boston, where Massachusetts lawmakers effected some of the nation’s strongest state-level eviction protections, as well as in cities in Texas, where there are next to no eviction protections. In July 2020, filings were low relative to a 2012–2016 baseline in all these cities except Milwaukee, where filings shot back up late in June and July. Over the first week of August, filings were down everywhere except for Jacksonville. Total eviction filings for July 2020 compared with average eviction filings for July 2012–16 for select cities Source: Eviction Lab Note: Average filing numbers are calculated over the same period of time, in 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2016 America had an eviction crisis long before this year, and even a stall in evictions does not signal good news for tenants. While evictions are down, other metrics of housing insecurity are up. A recent  Census Bureau survey found that an estimated one third of U.S. renters expected to miss their August rent payment. Most housing advocates say that it’s only a matter of time until evictions follow. By one dire analysis, more than 29 million Americans in 13 million households across the U.S. could face eviction by the end of the year. That’s the projection by the Covid-19 Eviction Defense Project, a Colorado-based group founded in March by economic and legal researchers, based on the census survey data; another analysis of the survey by the global advisory firm Stout puts 12 million at risk of eviction over the next 4 months. Some tenants are only just beginning to emerge from the relative safety of government protections. The federal eviction moratorium expired on July 25, but property owners that were subject to that law must still give 30 days’ notice before they can file against tenants. The lapse of the federal moratorium leaves millions of renters — who occupy between 28% and 46% of rental units — newly exposed to eviction proceedings. Tenants covered by the federal moratorium, while fewer in number, are more routinely subject to evictions, especially by so-called frequent filers in cities such as Atlanta or Houston. “The first two weeks of September are particularly worrisome, especially if Congress takes no further action,” says Peter Hepburn, associate professor of sociology at Rutgers University-Newark and research fellow for Eviction Lab, by email. Prospects for another federal eviction ban or bill to boost benefits appear bleak, with the Senate adjourned for recess through Labor Day. Still, millions of struggling tenants have had no backstop whatsoever since the pandemic’s arrival. Plenty of landlords in states such as Ohio, which never passed local protections, or Wisconsin, where a state ban has expired, might have taken action against tenants the moment courts opened their doors. Some landlords have done exactly that: In Columbus, Ohio, the county district court  took over the convention center to process eviction hearings in a socially distanced way. Yet in Columbus and other cities, the dockets are quiet. Percentage drop in eviction filings during the first week of August 2020 compared with the average for the same week over August 2012–16 Source: Eviction Lab Note: Average filing numbers are calculated over the same period of time, in 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2016 It’s a testament to a hastily stitched together patchwork of eviction protections and a federal adrenaline shot to the social safety net — and also, perhaps, a sign of the disquieting uncertainty that has set over the economy. “As the federal moratorium has expired, as the $600-a-week bonus unemployment insurance has expired, there’s good reason to worry that renters are in a tougher situation than they were before,” says Salim Furth, senior research fellow and co-director for the Urbanity Project at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. “But we’re still not seeing data come in that suggest a big surge in evictions.” Furth is skeptical that anything like a tsunami of evictions is coming. He points to the Great Recession as precedent: Despite the foreclosure crisis and household losses registering in the trillions, there was no massive spike in evictions, per data from Eviction Lab. He also says that the Census Bureau’s pandemic survey suffered from big swings in its weighted number of renters week to week, a potential sign of non-sampling error. “We don’t have a pre-pandemic benchmark,” Furth says. Some numbers align with his view that the nation is not yet on the brink of calamity. Back in April, the National Multifamily Housing Council, which represents mostly market-rate and middle-income apartment buildings, reported a slow start to rent collections at the beginning of the month. Major publications took this to mean that one-third of renters had missed their rent payment. But by the end of the month,  collections were close to their normal levels. The group’s rent tracker has shown collections slightly less than usual throughout the pandemic. Dimitri Hatzifotinos, a partner at Willis Law Firm in Columbus, Ohio, says that he expects the overall rate for eviction filings for 2020 to be less than that of 2019 or prior years. His firm, which represents property owners with a portfolio of some 175,000 rental units across 40 counties, namely in Columbus and Dayton, typically processes some 800 to 1,000 evictions per month. Notwithstanding the economic crisis — or perhaps because of it — he estimates the rate of evictions in Ohio will dip from an annual average of 5% to about 2.5% or 3% for the year. “We’re still not seeing data come in that suggest a big surge in evictions.” Increased funds from government programs are one potential source of assistance that may last beyond the end of formal legal protections. Aid under the CARES Act has been instrumental in keeping tenants in their homes. Cities and states had a lot of flexibility in how they spent some of the funds, including to provide aid for renters. This has added billions of dollars to programs designed to prevent eviction, on top of federal dollars specifically geared to prevent homelessness. According to Andrew Aurand, vice president for research at the National Low Income Housing Coalition, there are at least 322 local and state emergency rental assistance programs nationwide, 60% of which are drawing several billion dollars in funding from the CARES Act. “Generally speaking, they’re all really eviction avoidance programming,” Aurand says. “Some are more targeted toward eviction prevention, in that you have to show evidence that already you’re behind on your rent or there’s an eviction process underway.” Thousands of tenants in Madison, Wisconsin, for example, have received millions in emergency rental aid under the CARES Act. Authorities in Dane County put $10 million from its federal allocation toward rental assistance. By the end of July, the county had authorized 4,303 applications for aid, for a total of roughly $6 million. The average amount paid out to tenants was $1,707; the overwhelming majority of applicants (90%) had reported a loss of job or income. “The demand for these funds is very great,” says Heidi Wegleitner, a Dane County supervisor and housing attorney. In Columbus, Hatzifotinos says that the client for whom his firm processes the most evictions was able to connect tenants in 60 units with emergency rental assistance as it became available via the CARES Act. That client was able to avoid evictions in its portfolio as a result. There will be more evictions in September than in August, Hatzifotinos predicts, when the 30-day notice period for the lapsed federal moratorium is up. (He says he does not know how many evictions his law firm intends to file.) But it will fall short of anything like a tsunami for Ohio, he maintains. “Landlords have bent over backwards to waive late fees and forbear rents,” Hatzifotinos says, adding, “Overall, what we’ve seen, between the amount of federal and local aid, the rate of people who have not paid are way down from what we’ve seen in the past.” But current need outstrips available resources: One in four local or state emergency rental aid programs have already been exhausted, according to the National Low Income Housing Coalition. The situation is worse for cities that were plagued by evictions even before the pandemic. Evictions have returned to pre-pandemic levels in Milwaukee, which was the subject of Evicted, the 2017 Pulitzer Prize-winning book by Matthew Desmond, who heads Princeton’s Eviction Lab. The  Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported in mid-July that the Milwaukee agency administering funds from the state rental assistance program had a backlog of 17,000 phone calls. “It’s excellent that we haven't seen 10,000 filings in one month,” says Christine Donahoe, supervising attorney and housing priority coordinator for Legal Action of Wisconsin. “I think that it means that these rental assistance programs are working.” Monthly eviction filings for 2020 compared with historical averages for 2012–16 for select cities Source: Eviction Lab  Milwaukee is the only one of the 17 cities tracked by Eviction Lab that has seen a return to its pre-pandemic baseline for evictions. Many renters there are poorer to begin with and more vulnerable to sudden shifts in their income. But other cities with large shares of low-income renters, historically high evictions, and few legal protections in place — like Cleveland or Houston — have not yet reverted to the mean. “We’re at a critical point, nearing the end of August and September,” says Wegleitner. “It’s always a time when landlords are filing more evictions, before the fall and winter. Now we have this perfect storm of the federal moratorium expiring, no state moratorium in place, these rent assistance funds that were allocated with Covid relief money from the federal government are drying up.” Summer is another force shaping any wave of evictions to come. Hatzifotinos and others in the rental industry describe summer as the season for “traffic,” or turnover, owing to a universe of factors that includes the school year, cold weather and the holidays. In new yet-to-be-released research, Yuliya Panfil, director of the Future of Property Rights program at the think tank New America, says that eviction rates on average run about 40% higher in July and August than their low point in March. In Dallas and Richmond, Virginia, the summer eviction rate was double that of shoulder seasons. While the high season for evictions is coming to an end, Panfil says that she suspects that the summer wave of evictions is just being held back temporarily. “If this flood of evictions is going to happen, as is being predicted, it’s going to come on top of this major seasonal surge, which would further overwhelm courts, homeless shelters, eviction clinics, and other social safety nets,” Panfil says. “Everyone was scared about the second wave of Covid coming during flu season. It’s like we’ve just discovered what flu season is for evictions, and it’s now.” If and when any wave does arrive, it’s likely to crash particularly hard for Black and Brown tenants, who are disproportionately subject to evictions. Court records can’t account for illegal evictions and lockouts. Advocates and attorneys fear that the worst consequences of pandemic evictions will fall on vulnerable populations with little legal recourse, including the disabled or tenants who use Section 8 housing vouchers. One study of eviction filings in Boston found that the overwhelming majority (78%) of cases currently suspended by the Massachusetts moratorium were filed in mostly Black or immigrant neighborhoods. Some of those filings may never materialize when the dockets in Boston reopen, however, as landlords renegotiate leases or tenants simply vacate their units. The next steps taken by Congress may determine to a great extent what that number is. While President Donald Trump signed an executive order on evictions, experts say it  won’t do anything to stop them. “Everyone was scared about the second wave of Covid coming during flu season. It’s like we’ve just discovered what flu season is for evictions, and it’s now.” Furth, with the Mercatus Center, says that landlords expect to muddle through without much certainty as summer turns to fall. Most people who fall behind on rent don’t get evicted, he says; instead, landlords and tenants strike some kind of arrangement. To that end, local governments could help by publishing model lease renegotiation agreements — a legal tool to clarify these often fraught discussions (and something that could hold up in court to boot). “As tenants’ situations worsen, landlords’ offset options also worsen,” Furth says. “There’s a lemons market flavor. You don’t want to be out there searching.” Landlords say that this year is unlike any other. With the economy upside down and the coronavirus pandemic still raging, fewer families are on the move — “traffic” is down. That makes good tenants more valuable to landlords and new tenants harder to find, especially as the new school year starts, for whatever that means. Love, the Orlando landlord and property manager, says that he is “willing to make any payment plan that people can afford.” The longer landlords go without rent collections, the more likely they are to put off repairs or delay routine maintenance. In May, after a tenant suffered a family loss to Covid-19, Love let her out of her lease early; he decided that it would take too long to find a new tenant, so he sold the house. Love says he probably would have kept the property otherwise. He is holding out for a new emergency rental assistance program for Orange County that is launching on August 25. Otherwise, he plans to muddle through: keep the air conditioning working and hope for help from Congress. “Half the people missed one month somewhere,” Love says, referring to his tenants. “All things considered, could be worse.” — With assistance by Marie Patino