Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter A shower of economic reports during an emerging-market rally would, under normal circumstances, be used to help gauge whether the gains are justified. But since normal circumstances disappeared with Covid-19 many months ago, the growth and manufacturing reports from China, India, Brazil and South Africa that are due this week are potentially less decisive for traders than the simple fact that central banks still have the markets’ back. That dynamic was rarely more in evidence than last week, when Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell signaled policy makers will remain accommodative for longer through more tolerance of inflation, a stance that drove U.S. stocks to fresh records and the dollar lower as real yields declined. All of which provided renewed support for emerging markets. “That’s going to bode well both for emerging-market currencies -- and credit as well,” said Ali Malik, an investment adviser at Bank of Singapore. “We’re dollar bears.” A gauge of developing-nation domestic bonds was on the cusp of its longest sequence of monthly gains since June 2014 as of Friday. The benchmark equity index, having erased its losses for the year, was about to complete a fifth month in the green, something it hasn’t done in three years. And the main currency index was at its highest level since March. Such gains merely raise the stakes for an asset class still vulnerable to stubbornly high Covid-19 infection rates and a deterioration in relations between Washington and Beijing in the run-up to the U.S. presidential election. “The U.S.-China relationship will be under the microscope as we now enter the final leg of the campaign,” said Phoenix Kalen, an emerging-market strategist at Societe Generale SA in London who’s betting the Mexican peso, Korean won, Chinese offshore yuan and South African rand will weaken versus the dollar in coming months. “With many market participants anticipating that Donald Trump will use an anti-China stance to appeal to U.S. voters, investors will be very interested in observing if there is a rise in U.S.-China trade and geopolitical tensions.” Lebanon’s central bank will do what’s needed to advance stalled bailout talks between the government and the IMF, its veteran governor, Riad Salameh said last week Monday is the deadline for Brazil’s government to submit its 2021 budget proposal, which must weigh political pressure for more fiscal stimulus against a constitutional spending cap — With assistance by Nicholas Reynolds, Alec McCabe, and Manus Cranny