Welcome to Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. Mauritius fought hard to become the first African nation to tame the coronavirus. Now it's faced with an environmental disaster. With its economy already set to contract by a record 13% this year, resort operators were preparing to welcome back the tourists that are its   life-blood. The financial pain of quickly closing its airport and enforcing a strict lockdown to keep the number of confirmed virus cases to just 344 may now persist. Oil that gushed out of the tanks of a Japanese bulk carrier run aground on a reef off its south-east coast is an immediate threat to a nearby marine reserve. It’s also blackening beaches and may deter people from visiting the   Indian Ocean island, already in fierce competition with the Seychelles and the Maldives for well-heeled tourists. More people — 1.4 million  — visit the nation every year than live on it. Resorts ring its coast and tourism accounts for a third of foreign-exchange earnings. Reports suggest the oil may now be spreading north, threatening the most-popular hotels. While the cause of the accident is still being investigated and   compensation is being sought from Nagashiki Shipping, which owns the vessel, the damage to the country’s reputation as an island paradise is hard to quantify. And the protracted legal proceedings that may follow will be of little comfort to the islanders, who have endured months without the visitors that allow them to make a living and have now had their hopes of a quick recovery snuffed out. Still, the government's inertia in reacting to the ship becoming stranded three weeks ago and the lack of preparation for an eventuality such as an oil spill has attracted criticism, in contrast to the praise received for controlling the virus. Opportunity Lost | Changing policy decisions that stalled South Africa's renewable-power program has highlighted the nation's   unrealized potential and helped send it to the edge of economic and political disaster. With debt surging and the coronavirus pandemic threatening the deepest economic contraction in almost nine decades, the government faces a choice between loosening the grip of vested interests to embrace reform, or risk a sovereign-debt crisis and more permanent scars. Wary Nigeria | Bond investors in Nigeria may be   left stranded as the central bank halts dollar sales to foreigners. The rate that investors now earn for lending money to the government through 12-month Treasury bills has dropped to a 10-year low of 3.2%. On top of that, the local currency has twice been devalued against the dollar this year, risking losses when the money is repatriated.  Holders of Nigerian bonds and equities may have as much as $2.5 billion trapped in the country. That comes as investors, wary of naira devaluation and a poor economic outlook,   shun stocks. Uganda Buses | The first electric bus plant in Africa is helping to   modernize rural parts of Uganda and is a key step in the country's industrialization plan. State-owned Kiira Motors hopes to have an initial manufacturing capacity of 5,000 vehicles per year, including buses, starting in July. The company will be selling the vehicles to private and public companies that operate transport routes in and around Kampala, and about 90% of the e-bus parts could eventually be made in Uganda. Tourism Blow | Global restrictions on travel because of the coronavirus pandemic have dealt a   devastating blow to African nations who depend on tourists and their hard currency to support an industry that employs millions of people on the continent.  Travel and tourism contributed $168 billion to African economies last year, according to the World Travel and Tourism Council. Zimbabwe Snub | President Emmerson Mnangagwa rebuffed a South African attempt to help end Zimbabwe's economic crisis, and downplayed the problems it’s facing. The southern African nation's bigger neighbor dispatched special envoys to Harare to help address the country's challenges. But Mnangagwa told them there was nothing to discuss, and dismissed reports of a crackdown on government opponents as a fabrication. Data Watch Coming Up Tool-wielding chimpanzees and lowland gorillas in Cameroon   received a reprieve after the government suspended a plan to allow logging in a forest that’s their home. The state withdrew a July decree that made part of the area the private property of the state, which would have opened it up for logging. The Nigeria-Cameroon chimpanzee endemic to the area uses sticks to fish for termites and hammer-like stones and wooden clubs to crack open nuts, according to Global Wildlife Conservation. While those actions have been observed among other chimpanzee subspecies, Ebo Forest is the only place where the apes display both skills. The reserve was designated as a proposed National Park in 2006 and is rich in biodiversity, with elephants, gray parrots as well as the unique chimpanzees. — With assistance by John Viljoen