Photographer: Yuriko Nakao/Bloomberg Photographer: Yuriko Nakao/Bloomberg A global rally that drove equity gauges to records stalled on Thursday while bonds steadied before a highly anticipated speech from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. The yield on 10-year Treasuries, the world’s benchmark bond, hovered at about 0.69% after rising each day this week. The dollar also entered a holding pattern against its closest peers, just above a two-year low before Powell’s comments on the Fed’s monetary policy framework review that may center on interest rate parameters. Closer look: Morgan Stanley Preps for Even Bigger Fed-Engineered Risk Rally European stocks dipped at the open, with Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc tumbling after saying it plans to sell assets to raise cash as the coronavirus crisis batters air travel. Asian stocks traded mixed. U.S. equity futures fell after a surge in technology shares earlier pushed the S&P 500 index and the Nasdaq Composite to fresh highs for a fourth straight day. Investors are turning cautious before a bevy of central bankers and economists speak at the Jackson Hole economic symposium in a few hours via webcast entirely viewable by the public for the first time. Traders also are monitoring the progress of coronavirus vaccines and tests, including news of a 15-minute Covid test from Abbott Laboratories to be priced at $5. “We think the Fed’s message is clear: it will want to keep rates low across the yield curve, in line with its desire to keep financial conditions ultra-loose,” Mark Haefele, chief investment officer at UBS Global Wealth Management, wrote in a note. “Investors should keep cash holdings to a minimum and will need to search harder for yield.” Crude oil hovered near a five-month high as Hurricane Laura crossed over land in the refinery rich Gulf of Mexico region. Here are some key events coming up: Franklin Templeton President and Chief Executive Officer Jenny Johnson believes the era of the star fund manager is over, saying the support of a large team has always been critical to investing success. Source: Bloomberg These are the main moves in markets: Stocks Currencies Bonds Commodities — With assistance by Joanna Ossinger