Asian shares looked set for a muted start Wednesday, even as U.S. stocks closed above their February highs for the first time since the pandemic upended financial markets. The dollar fell to the lowest in more than two years and Treasuries advanced. Futures were little changed in Japan, and dipped in Hong Kong and Australia. S&P 500 contracts were flat after the gauge eked out a gain, having failed to better the Feb. 19 closing level in three of the past four sessions. Amazon.com Inc. paced the advance on Tuesday, pushing its surge this year to 79%. Homebuilders also rose as a report showed housing starts increased the most since 2016. Chinese shares will be in focus after the Trump administration warned U.S. colleges to divest them, while traders in Hong Kong are monitoring storm warning signals that forced the closure of pre-market trading on Wednesday. Massive stimulus injections and a surge in technology companies have driven the rebound in American equities from a pandemic-induced selloff. Coronavirus case numbers look to be improving, as evidence grows that the peak of the flareup across Sunbelt states is in the past. While stimulus talks have stalled, better-than-feared economic data and corporate earnings have instilled optimism that a recovery is taking shape. “We have a Federal Reserve that is all in, keeping rates low probably across the curve for as far as the eye can see,” Katie Nixon, chief investment officer at Northern Trust Wealth Management, said on Bloomberg TV. “That is supportive of higher valuations.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi indicated that Democrats might cut their stimulus proposal to seal a deal with Republicans and speed Covid-19 relief, then come back after the November elections with additional agenda items. Meanwhile, China denounced the U.S.’s latest moves to curb Huawei Technologies Co.’s access to commercially available chips, the latest blow in an increasingly tense relationship between the world’s two biggest economies. Elsewhere, gold rebounded back above $2,000 an ounce amid the escalating U.S.-China tensions. Katie Nixon, Northern Trust Wealth Management chief investment officer, says growth and value stocks are going through “fits and starts.” Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sophie Caronello, Rita Nazareth, and Vildana Hajric