Single-family homes dominate the housing stock in Portland, Oregon, but new zoning changes could bring more multi-family residences. In 2014, a group of architects, home builders, and neighborhood activists in Portland, Oregon, wrote a letter asking the city to rewrite local housing rules. At that point, a  population boom in renters was creating an affordability crisis, with new multi-family housing coming online for twice the city’s average price per square foot. With more than 70% of the Rose City’s residential land then reserved for single-family homes, the signatories urged officials to review the laws that governed the shapes and sizes of residences allowed, and proposed several reforms that would legalize more units per lot within the city's urban growth boundary. By doing so, they wrote, the city could push down costs and bring more people into Portland’s famously walkable, bikeable neighborhoods: “It’s time to address the mismatch between the types of homes encouraged by our codes and the needs of real people and households who live in Portland.” That letter helped start a movement, and on Wednesday that movement achieved one major goal. With a 3-1 vote, the Portland city council approved the “Residential Infill Project” (RIP), a package of amendments to the city’s zoning code that legalizes up to four homes on nearly any residential lot and sharply limits building sizes. The changes pave the way for duplexes, triplexes, cottage clusters, backyard accessory dwelling units, basement apartments, and other types of affordable “missing middle” housing that have been banned in Portland since the adoption of the city’s first zoning code in 1924. Developers will also now have the option to build as many as six homes on any lot if at least half of the resulting sixplex is available to low-income households at regulated, below-market prices — a so-called “deeper affordability option” that advocates estimate is the equivalent of a free subsidy of $100,000 or more per unit to nonprofit developers. Parking mandates that required builders to provide space for cars along with people are also now a thing of the past on most of the city’s residentially zoned land. The changes put Portland at the vanguard of U.S. communities trying to turn their surfeit of single-family homes into multi-unit residences. Mayor Ted Wheeler, who voted in support of the plan at Wednesday’s council meeting, said that the city’s existing zoning regulations failed to serve all Portlanders equally. “I don't pretend that these changes rectify all past harms,” he said, “but I fully believe that allowing for a greater mix of incomes is a crucial step in the right direction.” With a projected 123,000 new households arriving in Portland by 2035, city analyses estimate that RIP could generate 4,000 to 24,000 new units to accommodate them and that it will reduce displacement for vulnerable renters by 28%. The changes also put Portland at the vanguard of U.S. communities trying to turn their surfeit of single-family homes into multi-unit residences. Since 2018, Minneapolis, Seattle and Austin — along with Vancouver, British Columbia — have all passed  various code reforms in order to increase housing stocks and lower costs to developers and residents. But Portland’s project is unique and potentially more effective, experts say. RIP increases the allowable floor-to-area ratio (FAR) for multi-unit buildings, while reducing FAR for new single-family homes — a devilish detail that may be key for accelerating production, according to Michael Andersen, a senior researcher at the Sightline Institute, a research center focused on sustainability and urban policy. This sliding size cap will allow multi-unit buildings to take up more of their lots than single-unit buildings. The changes are also by-right, which means developers will be able to utilize them without neighborhood design reviews and appeals processes that can stymie new plans, as vividly seen in drawn-out local zoning battles in neighboring California. On Tuesday, Andersen wrote that Portland’s changes are “the most pro-housing reform to low-density zones in U.S. history.” Portland’s new zoning changes also complement rather than clash with statewide housing laws. Unlike most states, Oregon requires and oversees urban growth boundaries, which encourages a certain level of density in populous areas like Portland. Those laws got a boost in August 2019 when state legislators passed an upzoning bill allowing duplexes or triplexes on most lots zoned for single-family homes throughout the state. That helped shift the politics in support of sweeping zoning reform more locally, according to Joe Cortright, the Portland-based economist and director of the City Observatory website. “When all the jurisdictions are subject to the same requirements as you are, it lessens the political penalty for moving ahead,” he said. After years of debate and analysis, RIP’s passage comes as Portland, famously among the whitest big cities in America, is gripped by ongoing protests over racism and police violence that have drawn national attention. While the city has grown more diverse in recent years, its urban center has become whiter. Thousands of African-American residents have moved to peripheral neighborhoods, some with poorer access to jobs and transit, while spikes in homelessness prompted a housing state of emergency in 2015 that continues to this day. A 2019 report by the city’s Bureau of Planning and Sustainability traced how the city’s 1924 zoning regulations — as in thousands of others in communities across the U.S. —  “created and reinforced racial segregation and inequities” that manifest today in “accelerating gentrification and displacement of people of color by concentrating growth and density in vulnerable areas.” On Wednesday, Wheeler praised RIP as a response to the city’s disparities, past and present, if not necessarily a complete one. City analyses have found that a few of Portland’s low-income neighborhoods could face slightly greater housing pressure under the new plan. That was one reason that outgoing commissioner Amanda Fritz said that she opposed it at Wednesday’s hearing, calling hers “the saddest vote I have ever cast on this council.” She also worried that increasing densities citywide could overpopulate neighborhoods with poor transit service, adding cars to the road. Portland, the first city in the U.S. to adopt a climate action plan in 1993, aims to reduce 80% of local carbon emissions by 2050. But many environmental groups, including the local chapter of the Sunrise Movement, support the changes, as do anti-displacement activists who helped shape the sixplex amendment,  which was added in 2019. Along with detailed changes to FAR that incentivize more low-income housing, the reforms are expected to “change the economics of displacement,” said David Sweet, a co-founder of Portland For Everyone, a coalition of housing nonprofits, residents and businesses that advocated for the infill change. Sweet, a former civil servant in the city’s building permits department, was one of the names on the 2014 letter. He credits the work of younger Portlanders — many of them activists tied to local YIMBY groups — at a hearing in early 2020 with helping to cement the votes required to adopt the new changes, on top of years of civic engagement by housing providers, advocates, urbanists, and neighborhood activists. “This is a tribute to what a hard-working community organizer can do,” he said.