Asian stocks came under pressure Thursday after the dollar climbed and U.S. equities retreated in the wake of Federal Reserve minutes that signaled tempered optimism about second-half growth. Stocks fell in Japan, Australia and South Korea, while S&P 500 futures fell back. U.S. shares earlier erased gains as the Fed noted the health crisis would “weigh heavily” on economic activity and repeated its view that the path of the recovery would depend on containment of the virus. The greenback steadied, holding gains that came after a five-day selloff. Gold pared an overnight fall. Treasury yields edged higher. Having closed at a record for the first time since the pandemic started this week, U.S. shares eased back as investors debated whether momentum can be sustained amid lofty valuations and uncertainties over further government stimulus. Meanwhile, Fed officials said the virus was posing a considerable risk to the economic outlook over the medium term. Policy makers are likely more worried about the pace of the recovery “given the stalemate on fiscal stimulus in Washington,” said Marvin Loh, senior global macro strategist at State Street. “The Fed will continue to do what it can, but it does feel that fiscal is as important in the recovery process as monetary, and their tools to get funds to Main Street remain constrained.” Democratic and Republican leaders are hinting that they are looking for a path toward reviving stalled negotiations on the next round of pandemic relief -- even as both sides remain far from a deal. Any accord is still likely to wait until September despite the fact that the U.S. economy is limping along with many businesses still struggling and millions of Americans out of work. Elsewhere, oil slipped from a five-month high as the OPEC+ alliance urged members to adhere to limiting output as the coronavirus pandemic threatens a demand recovery. Here are some key events coming up: Joachim Fels, global economic adviser at Pacific Investment Management Co., says the Federal Reserve will adopt an “opportunistic reflation strategy” where they are willing to overshoot the inflation target to make up for past undershoots. Source: Bloomberg These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Rita Nazareth, Claire Ballentine, and Vildana Hajric