We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. U.S. President Donald Trump said a treatment based on blood plasma donated by people who’ve recovered from Covid-19 will be expanded, even before researchers fully understand how well it works. New Zealand extended a lockdown in its largest city Auckland to Aug. 30. South Korea reported a decline in new cases, and a health official said the situation isn’t at the stage of raising social-distancing measures to the highest level yet. Coronavirus-related deaths in the U.S. fell below 1,000, while fatalities in Mexico surpassed 60,000. Europe is seeing a resurgence of cases and India infections topped 3 million. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The Philippines is negotiating with 16 manufacturers of potential Covid-19 vaccines to procure supplies needed to battle Southeast Asia’s largest outbreak. The country will join human trials of 14 vaccines under the World Health Organization’s Solidarity Trial and the global Covax facility to get priority access if they’re proven effective, Health Undersecretary Maria Rosario Vergeire told ABS-CBN News Channel. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the largest city Auckland will stay in lockdown four days longer than initially planned to ensure a community outbreak of Covid-19 is under control. Auckland will exit lockdown at midnight on Aug. 30 rather than on Aug. 26, Ardern told reporters in Wellington. Watch: New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern says Auckland will stay in lockdown four days longer than initially planned. Source: New Zealand Government/Bloomberg) South Korea added 266 coronavirus cases in 24 hours, down from 397 a day earlier, according to data from Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. Yoon Tae-ho, a senior official at the health ministry, said that while daily virus cases fell slightly, officials need to monitor the trend further. Yoon said the situation isn’t at the stage of raising social-distancing measures to the highest level of 3 yet, but officials are actively reviewing the possibility. Mexico reported 3,948 new confirmed Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 560,164, according to data released by the Health Ministry Sunday night. Deaths rose 226 to 60,480. Mexico trails just the U.S. and Brazil in total deaths and has the world’s seventh-highest number of cases. The country is struggling to contain the outbreak, which has brought the economy crashing and continues to spread despite government efforts to clamp down. In a webcast Friday, the World Health Organization said Mexico’s testing rate means the pandemic is “clearly under-recognized” in the Latin American nation. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency plans to issue an emergency exemption to Texas that will allow American Airlines to use a new surface coating that kills coronaviruses for as long as seven days, Reuters reported, citing unidentified officials familiar with a planned EPA announcement on Monday. Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro defended the reopening of retail outlets “with responsibility” and said his government had done everything possible to curb the spread of Covid-19, in a video posted on social media Sunday. Brazilian soldiers disinfect the balcony around the Christ The Redeemer statue in Rio de Janeiro on Aug. 15. Photographer: Mauro Pimentel/AFP via Getty Images Some authorities have destroyed jobs in Brazil, Bolsonaro said, referring to state governors who advocate maintaining social distancing. Bolsonaro spoke on a day in which Brazil reached 114,744 deaths from the coronavirus, including 494 in the last 24 hours. President Trump said a treatment involving blood plasma donated by recovered Covid-19 patients will be expanded under an emergency authorization by U.S. regulators on Sunday, saving “countless lives.” “This is what I’ve been looking to do for a long time,” Trump said at a White House news conference announcing the decision, which he said will “dramatically expand access” to a “powerful therapy.” He also promised further announcements “very shortly” involving vaccines. After claiming without evidence that employees at the Food and Drug Administration were delaying coronavirus remedies for political reasons ahead of the November election, Trump said the emergency procedure speeded up the normal approval route by two or three years. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson asked parents directly to send their children back to the classroom when schools in England reopen next week, as concern grows among some teachers and union officials that it’s not safe to do so. “The risk of contracting Covid-19 in school is very small and it is far more damaging for a child’s development and their health and well-being to be away from school any longer,” Johnson said in a statement on Sunday. “It’s vitally important that we get our children back into the classroom to learn and to be with their friends.” Texas reported its fewest number of new coronavirus cases in seven weeks. The Lone Star state recorded 3,493 new cases on Sunday and 577,537 overall, the Department of State Health Services said on its website. The state recorded 104 deaths, the lowest since Aug. 17, for a total of 11,370. California reported 6,777 new virus cases on Sunday, the highest number in a week but still less than the seven-day average of 7,822. There have been 663,669 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the state, according to the health department’s website. The number of deaths climbed by 146 to 12,134 France reported 4,897 new cases, the largest increase since the previous peak in mid-April. Deaths increased by one to 30,513 in the past 24 hours. Public health workers in protective equipment prepare to test people at a nursing home in Thessaloniki, Greece on Aug. 19. Photographer: Sakis Mitrolidis/AFP via Getty Images Greece reported a record 284 new coronavirus cases on Sunday. The total number reached 8,664, of which around 40% has been reported in August. The death toll reached 242. The nation extended restrictions, including the closure of bars and restaurants on the island of Lesvos from midnight to 7 a.m. starting Monday through Sept. 1. Mexico, with the world’s third-highest fatalities from Covid-19, crossed the 60,000 milestone for deaths after losing 644 patients on Saturday. The country trails just the U.S. and Brazil in total deaths and has the world’s seventh-highest number of cases at 556,216 as of Saturday. Reported cases in Arizona dropped significantly, to an increase of 207, fewer than the nearly 1,000 reported the day before and the lowest increase since June 1. Total cases are now 198,103. Arizona Governor Doug Ducey said on Twitter that the state’s transmission rate is at .83, which he said is the second-lowest in the nation. Even so, weekend data reporting often show lower totals than during the week. Joe Biden speaks during the Democratic National Convention on Aug. 20. Photographer: Stefani Reynolds/Bloomberg Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden hasn’t been tested for coronavirus, a top aide said on Sunday, as the campaign enters its busiest period. “We have put the strictest protocols in place, and moving forward, should he need to be tested, he certainly would be,” Kate Bedingfield, deputy manager for Biden’s presidential campaign, said on ABC’s “This Week.” She also said Biden hasn’t had the virus, although it’s not clear how this would be known without a test. President Donald Trump is receiving regular tests. New cases reported in the U.K. stayed above 1,000 for a fourth day, even as they dropped from a two-month high reported Saturday. The U.K. added 1,041 cases, bringing the total to 325,642, and reported another six deaths linked to Covid-19. Italy reported 1,210 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, an increase from 1,071 the day before. That extends a series of increases since Aug. 17. There were seven deaths compared with three the day before. Florida reported 600,571 cases on Sunday, up 0.5% from a day earlier, compared with an average increase of 0.7% in the previous seven days. Deaths among Florida residents reached 10,325, an increase of 51, less than the 106 reported the previous day, according to the state health department report, which includes data through Saturday. New York reported that virus-related hospitalizations had dropped to 472 and intensive care patients to 110, both the lowest since mid-March. It also marked the 16th straight day of positive-test results under 1%. The state reported 572 new cases, a 0.1% rise in line with the average daily increase of the previous week. Another five deaths were reported but none in New York City. Yulia Tymoshenko, a Ukrainian opposition politician and former prime minister, has been hospitalized with coronavirus, her spokeswoman Maryna Soroka said on Facebook. Tymoshenko’s condition is “serious,” Soroka said. U.S. confirmed virus cases increased by 45,855 on Saturday, matching the 0.8% daily average increase over the previous week, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Virus-related deaths rose by 998, the first time in five days the data showed fewer than 1,000 deaths. British authorities are threatening the organizers of raves, unlicensed music events, or illegal gatherings of 30 or more people with fines of 10,000 pounds, just before the country starts the last holiday weekend of the summer. People who attend such events may be fined 100 pounds, which can rise to as much as 3,200 pounds, the Home Office said. — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland