Asian stocks drifted lower at the start of a new month after most U.S. equities retreated even though technology shares extended gains. Australia underperformed and Japan opened with modest declines, with S&P 500 futures reversing an earlier drop. South Korean equities advanced as the government prepares to boost its budget in 2021. The U.S. benchmark notched a fifth consecutive monthly advance in August despite edging lower Monday. The dollar declined for a fifth month in a row. Treasuries reversed gains. The Dow Jones Industrial Average led losses after its components were revamped, with Microsoft Corp. and Walmart Inc. slumping on concern China could block a possible sale of the video app TikTok. Apple Inc.’s surge as the stock split 4-for-1 lifted the Nasdaq 100 past 12,000 for the first time. With global stocks up 6% in August and 10-year Treasury yields almost 20 basis points higher, traders have been betting on the global economy’s recovery from virus shutdowns and continuing gains in tech shares. Still, with U.S. infections ticking up again and India becoming the world’s epicenter for new cases, the pandemic is far from beaten and investors will be scouring data this week for clues on the outlook. “Following such a strong month and such a strong recovery since we saw the trough back in March, we do think we could see some turbulence over the next few months,” Tracie McMillion, head of global asset allocation strategy at Wells Fargo Investment Institute, said on Bloomberg Television. “We’re entering a seasonally weaker period, we’ve got elections on the horizon, and also we’re entering the fall and there could be some coronavirus escalation that also could start to worry market participants.” Elsewhere, oil rose in a tight range below $43 a barrel. Nela Richardson, senior investment strategist at Edward Jones, says the stock market rally will continue, but it won’t be a smooth one. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events to watch this week: Here are the main market moves: — With assistance by Sophie Caronello, Vildana Hajric, Joanna Ossinger, and Gregor Stuart Hunter