A visitor wearing a protective masks and gloves talks to a staff member behind a protective barrier at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, on Aug. 27. Berlin police are bracing for potential clashes with demonstrators after a court ruled that protests against Germany’s coronavirus policies could move forward on Saturday. In the U.K., the health secretary warned the country could face local lockdowns should infections spike in the coming months. Hong Kong opened registration for free coronavirus tests, a massive, two-week effort to reach a high percentage of the city’s 7 million residents. New cases fell to a two-month low in the Australian state of Victoria, home to hard-hit Melbourne. Sydney health officials continue to track an outbreak linked to a downtown gym and urged people to avoid visits to nursing homes. California added new protections for renters and homeowners, while New York City’s museums are coming back to life, absent throngs of tourists. American college football powerhouse University of Alabama has reported more than 1,000 cases since classes began. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Record daily increase pushes India nearer toward second worst-hit nation Source: Johns Hopkins University  Police are bracing for protests in Berlin over Germany’s restrictions and rules to stem the spread of the coronavirus. Authorities estimate that more than 20,000 people will attend the events planned throughout the day in the German capital. In a show of force, police have 3,000 officers on duty after some participants called for violence in social media posts. Efforts to block the protest were unsuccessful after courts ruled authorities had to allow the gathering. Germany’s daily coronavirus infections remained near a four-month high on Saturday, with 1,555 new cases reported in the last 24 hours. The country’s reproduction rate -- the average number of new people infected by one person with the virus –- rose to 0.94 from 0.83 on Friday, according to the latest report from the RKI public health institute. U.K. Health Secretary Matt Hancock warned that the country could face “very extensive” local lockdowns in the event of a second wave of coronavirus this winter. Hancock told the Times he’s working under the “central scenario” that a vaccine will likely be available “some time next year.” Until then, he said the government will have to rely on three “lines of defense” to stop the spread of the coronavirus: social distancing, testing and tracing and local lockdowns. California has reached an agreement to protect tenants and small property owners from the economic impact of the pandemic, according to a statement from Governor Gavin Newsom. Landlords won’t be allowed to evict renters before Jan. 31, 2021, at the earliest, as long as partial payments and certain declarations are made. People who own small properties -- single family homes up to four-unit residential investments -- will be protected from foreclosures. Earlier Friday, Newsom announced new statewide guidance for reopening the economy, supplanting the patchwork county-by-county structure. The new framework also allows some sectors to be partially open as opposed to strictly being open or closed, and the focus will narrow to two primary metrics -- case rates per 100,000 residents and test positivity rates -- to determine how a county is faring. Victoria state, the epicenter of the pandemic in Australia, reported 94 new Covid-19 infections for Friday, the fewest since July 4. The state’s health department also reported Saturday via Twitter that there were 18 deaths from the disease. The second-largest state has been under strict lockdown restrictions to combat the virus, and the central bank estimates the effective isolation is set to push the national unemployment rate up to 10% later this year. The country’s largest state, New South Wales, reported 14 new cases, eight of which were linked to an emerging cluster centered on a Sydney gym. The University of Alabama reported 492 new cases on Wednesday and Thursday, in addition to 571 diagnosed since the beginning of classes on Aug. 19, according to the university’s website. Nearly all the cases were at the university’s main campus in Tuscaloosa, and all but two cases were students. More than 38,000 students attend the university, which appears to have one of the nation’s larger outbreaks. While the national increase in cases this summer has eased, schools around the nation are reporting outbreaks as students return to classes. The Colorado Supreme Court declined Friday to hear a case against the statewide mask order issued by Gov. Jared Polis on 16 July. House Minority Leader Patrick Neville challenged the order, which Polis recently extended until Sept. 13. The Democratic governor said in a statement that wearing a mask is an effective weapon against Covid-19 and “will help keep businesses open, save lives, and keep our economy growing.” Pinterest Inc. canceled a large office lease at a building to be constructed near its San Francisco headquarters, one of the most significant moves yet by a big tech company to scale back real estate plans in the city amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The social-sharing service is paying an $89.5 million termination fee to terminate its lease for 490,000 square feet (45,500 square meters) of space. It will keep its existing offices in the city. “As we analyze how our workplace will change in a post-Covid world, we are specifically rethinking where future employees could be based,” Todd Morgenfeld, Pinterest’s chief financial officer and head of business operations, said in a statement Friday. Brazil reported 43,412 cases, fewer than the 44,235 from the previous day, for a total of 3,804,804, the Health Ministry said. Another 855 deaths were reported, a drop from the 984 reported the day before. Total fatalities in the nation with the worst outbreak after the U.S. are now 119,504. U.S. health official said Friday that hundreds of thousands of doses of coronavirus vaccines have already been manufactured in hopes that at least one of the candidates might succeed in clinical trials. The Trump administration’s “Operation Warp Speed” program has reached agreements for eight coronavirus vaccine candidates that are in various stages of development, none of which have yet been approved or authorized for use. Paul Mango, deputy chief of staff for policy at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, said three of those experimental shots have already been produced at mass scale, with hundreds of thousands of doses ready to be deployed should they receive clearance from the Food and Drug Administration. Three other candidates will soon go into manufacturing, he said. After more than five months in hibernation, the museums of New York are slowly starting to reopen, reawakening part of the cultural life of the city. On Saturday, the Metropolitan Museum of Art will greet the general public after members were allowed back on Thursday. The Museum of Modern Art just opened this week, the Whitney Museum of American Art will reopen next week and the Guggenheim plans to return in October. “When there’s turmoil, that’s the time when you want to go to a museum, to have that moment of connection with a work of art,” said Tom Finkelpearl, the city’s former cultural affairs commissioner. With practically no tourists, who usually make up the lion’s share of visitors, and government restrictions on capacity, the impact of museum reopenings will be more symbolic than economic, Finkelpearl said. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.9% as compared with the same time Thursday to 5.9 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was higher than the average daily gain of 0.7% over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.6% to 181,409. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has parted ways with its chief spokeswoman, according to a person with knowledge of the move, after the head of the agency exaggerated the benefits of an experimental therapy, and others in the Trump administration promoted the erroneous statements. The spokeswoman, Emily Miller, was ousted after a press conference Sunday at which FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn said that convalescent blood plasma -- an experimental treatment that uses plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients to treat those currently infected -- could save 35 out of 100 people who would otherwise have died. That was incorrect. The FDA only had data showing that a higher concentration of the treatment was better than a lower one. Commercial real estate deals in New York City have taken a major hit as the pandemic continues to roil the local economy. Investment sales totaled $10.5 billion in the first half of 2020, down 54% from a year earlier and a record low since the Real Estate Board of New York begin reporting the data in 2015. “We continue to see the devastating and long-lasting impacts the pandemic has had on the health and stability of the New York economy,” James Whelan, the trade group’s president, said in a statement. “Real estate is a fundamental driver of the city’s economy.” — With assistance by Chad Thomas, Susan Warren, Jonathan Levin, Nour Al Ali, Patrick Gillespie, Murilo Fagundes, Sophie Alexander, Jose Orozco, Niluksi Koswanage, David Verbeek, Anchalee Worrachate, and Janet Paskin