A rare show of investor confidence in European unity is boosting the region’s stocks and currency at the same time, but equities’ good fortune could take a hit if the euro keeps climbing toward a pain threshold seen around $1.30, according to a Bloomberg survey. There is still some way before the single currency could reach the level that will pose a threat to the region’s earnings recovery, according to the majority of the 24 strategists and fund managers polled. However, the euro’s rally to a two-year high just shy of $1.20 this month has brought it back on the radar of equity traders. European assets are getting a boost from the region’s unusually coordinated response to the pandemic and a nascent economic recovery. The euro has soared about 11% from its March low, while the Euro Stoxx 50 Index has recouped about two-thirds of its losses from the selloff through March. While it’s not at the top of investors’ list of worries, a continued strengthening of the euro could hamper the corporate profit rebound expected in 2021. “Euro strength is like a party followed by a hangover for European equities: a positive event in the political sphere tends to boost simultaneously the currency and equities, but it is a matter of time before the effects start to be negative,” said Vincent Manuel, global chief investment officer at CA Indosuez Wealth Management. Of the 24 market participants in Bloomberg’s survey, half gave a precise level they see as a pain threshold for stocks. Estimates ranged from $1.20 for Brooks Macdonald Asset Management Ltd., CA Indosuez Wealth Group and Principal Global Advisors Ltd. to a high of $1.40 for Societe Generale SA, BNP Paribas SA and Nordea Investment Funds SA. The euro strengthened further against the dollar on Friday, while the Euro Stoxx 50 Index fell as much as 1%. For many, the pace of the euro’s gains and the shape of the economic recovery are more important factors, rather than a specific level. They said that while a strengthening euro is a mechanical drag on equities, it could be offset by other market forces such as stimulus measures or improving PMI data. The currency’s rally could also draw policy attention. Quantitative easing from the European Central Bank -- which holds its next policy meeting on Sept. 10 -- has helped keep the euro lower, in turn supporting the earnings of European exporters. “The euro strength is a big problem for the European Central Bank as well, causing a de facto policy tightening,” said Edward Park, deputy chief investment officer at Brooks Macdonald Asset Management, highlighting $1.20 as a key level that was discussed by policy makers back in September 2017. “There will be quite a few questions at the next ECB meeting as to whether they want to see a patch of euro weakness.” Should the euro keep gaining, sectors with a cost base in the single currency and a high proportion of revenue in dollars are likely to be hit the most. That includes aerospace, industrials, health care, autos and luxury goods. Equities relying on the domestic economy, such as banks, insurance, utilities, telecoms and real estate, may be more immune. Importers, such as retailers or small-caps, which tend to have higher domestic exposure, may also benefit. At a country level, most respondents in the survey said they expect Germany to be hit the hardest by a stronger currency, as DAX Index members rely heavily on exports. For now, an improving economic backdrop and nascent European solidarity -- demonstrated by the issuance of joint fiscal stimulus -- are supporting the region’s assets. Further inflows into stock funds could also help offset the impact of a stronger currency, with Bank of America Corp.’s latest survey showing the EU is the most preferred global equity region among fund managers. Below are comments from some of the strategists and fund managers surveyed. Ankit Gheedia, macro equity strategist at BNP Paribas SA: Esty Dwek, head of global macro at Natixis Investment Managers: Jeremy Gatto, investment manager at Unigestion SA: Kasper Elmgreen, head of equity investment at Amundi SA: Max Kettner, multi-asset strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc: Roland Kaloyan, head of European equity strategy at SocGen: Rolf Ganter, head of European equities at UBS Wealth Management Sean Darby, head of equity strategy at Jefferies LLC: Sebastian Raedler, strategist at Bank of America: Sharon Bell, strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.: Emmanuel Cau, head of European equity strategy at Barclays Plc: Sylvain Goyon, head of equity strategy at Oddo BHF: Shoqat Bunglawala, head of Global Portfolio Solutions EMEA & APAC at Goldman Sachs Asset Management: Stephen Jen, CEO of Eurizon Slj Capital: — With assistance by Jan-Patrick Barnert, and Joel Leon