Residents of Port Arthur board a bus to evacuate ahead of Hurricane Laura on Aug. 25. The area was hard hit by Hurricane Harvey in 2017, and disparities in recovery aid have left enduring effects. Photographer: Luke Sharrett/Bloomberg Photographer: Luke Sharrett/Bloomberg John Beard wasn’t taking any chances with Hurricane Laura. He and his wife live in Port Arthur, Texas, less than 50 miles away from where the Category 4 storm eventually made landfall near Cameron, Louisiana. Beard rode out the storm in Austin, where one of his children lives. Had Laura veered any further west, he planned to take a different route. “Next stop, Van Horn,” he says — referring to a pit stop some 700 miles away, out in the desert near El Paso. Beard and many others Texans were fortunate this time. Damage reports are still coming in, but it’s already clear that Laura — one of the strongest storms to ever strike Louisiana — caused more than $15 billion in insured losses in the city of Lake Charles and surrounding areas. As of Aug. 31, the deaths of at least 14 people in Louisiana have been attributed to the storm, with four more in Texas. As the winds abate, residents who evacuated Houston, Beaumont, Port Arthur, and other Texas cities are returning to their homes and hoping for the best. “Port Arthur was spared,” said Hilton Kelley, founder and director of the Community In-Power and Development Association, in a Facebook dispatch from Dallas. He added, “It appears that there was no type of flooding in the city of Port Arthur, so we don’t have to worry about what happened with [Hurricane] Harvey, as far as having three to four to five to six feet of water in your home.” In 2017, Hurricane Harvey dropped nearly 50 inches of rain on this part of Texas, causing $125 billion in damages and leaving lasting economic scars. Indeed, thousands of people who weathered this latest hurricane have yet to fully recover from the last one. Part of the challenge, many local housing advocates say, is that the federal funds designed to help Gulf residents rebuild their lives are not distributed equitably. Beard, a former Port Arthur city council member, heads up the Port Arthur Community Action Network, a local environmental justice nonprofit that has tried to help those left behind by federal recovery funds. The group found that the greatest determinant for Harvey recovery payouts was not damage or need, but rather location — a formula that short-changed the region’s African American renters and homeowners alike while handing outsized payouts to white homeowners. “It’s like Port Arthur is getting sidestepped in order to profit other areas of the community and the region that are predominantly white and not impoverished,” he says. Disaster recover programs that prioritize the needs of homeowners over those of renters have established a pattern along the Gulf: Some hurricane victims, especially people of color who rent rather than own their homes, receive far lower amounts of aid than homeowners, who are more likely to be white and earn higher incomes. In a part of the country heavily dependent of the fossil fuel industry and starkly vulnerable to the extreme weather driven by climate change, the aid gap is just one part of a long history of equity and environmental justice concerns. The pandemic is adding a new layer to this story: Hurricanes spell a unique disaster for residents suffering Covid-related housing insecurity. Evacuation is dangerous for tenants, even for those whose homes remain intact, since renters are more vulnerable to illegal evictions when they leave their property. “The concern is that when people evacuate during a hurricane, because of a situation where they might be behind on the rent, the landlord might take that as an opportunity to say that this tenant has decided to self evict,” says Dana Karni, managing attorney for Lone Star Legal Aid. That also applies to the thousands of people who evacuated Lake Charles, the Louisiana city of 80,000 that took the brunt of Hurricane Laura’s wrath. About 48% of Lake Charles residents are Black, and the city’s homeownership rate stands at 52%, well below the national average. While the level of destruction is still being assessed in Lake Charles and the surrounding areas, what happened to Southeast Texas in the wake of Hurricane Harvey could be instructive. As CityLab reported in 2018, there were profound racial disparities in the way that disaster recovery funds was allocated after Harvey. In parts of Southeast Texas, for example, sparsely populated towns received virtually as much aid for relocation as large cities. By distributing funds based on inundation levels and geography — without concern for need or population — some residents of tiny, predominantly white towns such as Bevil Oaks and Pine Forest received tens of thousands of dollars each. Those living in the large majority-minority cities of Beaumont and Port Arthur received no more than $84 each to repair damaged homes. Storm after storm, places left behind during the recovery fall back further. This is just one purse within the larger Community Development Block Grant–Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) fund assigned by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to Southeast Texas. A lawsuit filed in late 2019 against state and federal officials alleges that the state plan for distributing $5.6 billion in CDBG-DR recovery funds for Harvey favors wealthier homeowners over poorer renters. Filed by Lone Star Legal Aid on behalf of tenants living in Beaumont, Galveston, Houston and Port Arthur, the suit accuses the state’s General Land Office of steering federal funds away from Black and Hispanic areas and into white neighborhoods. “The way in which the General Land Office developed programs, 75% of this funding is going to programs to assist homeowners, and only 25% of these programs are going to assist renters,” says Ashea Jones Brown, community advocacy staff attorney at Lone Star Legal Aid. “The renter programs do not go directly to renters. They go to build units that have been damaged or lost during the storm. Even with those units, the renters who were damaged by Harvey are not entitled to first consideration of those units when and if they are developed.” With its allocation formula, the GLO doesn’t account for homeowners with insurance, people with far less need for CDBG-DR funds. By setting aside so much more aid for homeowners, the state distributes a disproportionate share of federal recovery dollars to white neighborhoods where homeownership predominates. Renters lose out in several ways: HUD set a minimum personal property loss of $2,000 as the threshold for claims, which cuts out many very low income renters who lost everything. Rebuilding a damaged rental property doesn’t necessarily fulfill the housing needs of the displaced renters who once lived there. Worst of all, pre-existing inequality in housing compounds long-term inequality in recovery. The Lone Star Legal Aid lawsuit claims that authorities at the GLO and HUD made arbitrary decisions in disbursing federal aid — namely by counting insured homeowners in the column for homeowners’ need. Renters continue to be ignored by officials who design disaster relief programs in Texas, Jones Brown says, which exacerbates racial disparities. Black residents are more likely to be tenants, and over time these systemic disparities have calcified into a permanently precarious situation for Black residents of the “Golden Triangle” cities of Port Arthur, Beaumont and Orange, she says. The damage wrought by Harvey was predicated on segregation: A report by researchers at the University of Pittsburgh and Rice University commissioned by the plaintiffs found that “the existing residential racial and ethnic segregation would exacerbate the disadvantage to Hispanics and Blacks because unequal aid to individuals can scale up to adversely affect entire neighborhoods, if those neighborhoods are racially divided.” Storm after storm, places left behind during the recovery fall back further. In a motion to dismiss, the GLO defended its minimum personal property loss value and its formula for determining need. Renters should not be entitled to the same evaluation as owners for relief, the motion reads. “It goes without saying that tenants of all races are not entitled to receive direct compensation for damages to rental property they do not own, just as any individual is not entitled to be compensated for the damages to or destruction of property they do not own,” reads the motion from the General Land Office. “As a comparison, hotel guests of all races staying in a hotel damaged by a hurricane are not entitled to receive damages or any other funding attributable to the repair or rebuilding of the hotel, nor are they entitled to receive funds for the construction of new hotels — such windfall would be patently absurd.” The lawsuit is still in litigation. Meanwhile, residents of the Golden Triangle are just beginning to return and assess the damage they’ve sustained from the newest Gulf storm. Though they escaped the worst of Laura, thousands of people in Southeast Texas are still without power. And this very active 2020 hurricane season is less than half over. “Every time these things happen, we get the short end of the stick,” says Beard. “Our people don’t get the help they should. The money’s not allocated in a way that’s conducive to helping people who really need the help the most.”