 Dow Jones, publisher of the Wall Street Journal, said it’s getting $140,000 in settlement of a copyright-infringement dispute with the libertarian financial website Zero Hedge. Without permission, Zero Hedge allegedly posted 37 editorials and articles from the Wall Street Journal, according to a statement that Dow Jones provided in response to questions. While the two sides reached an agreement privately without going to court, Dow Jones issued the statement when asked about a lien filed in Washington. “Dow Jones aggressively protects its journalists’ work, and when we discovered that Zero Hedge had infringed on Dow Jones’s copyrights by selecting dozens of articles -- mostly from the Opinion section of The Wall Street Journal -- and republished them on its website without authorization, we took action,” the company said. “Earlier this summer, we reached a settlement in which Zero Hedge removed the infringing articles from its site and agreed to make significant payments to Dow Jones.” Dow Jones, part of of billionaire Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., has negotiated several settlements over the past few years as part of an effort to more aggressively defend its content from unauthorized use. The company has announced monetary settlements with at least three other organizations since 2018, including a $3.4 million accord with the California Public Employees’ Retirement System. Zero Hedge and its parent company, ABC Media Ltd., didn’t respond to requests for comment, and attorneys representing the two sides declined to comment. Zero Hedge, founded during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, publishes a mix of financial news and analysis, along with populist political commentary. While many of the articles are authored under the pseudonym “Tyler Durden” -- the character played by Brad Pitt in the cult film “Fight Club” -- Bloomberg reported in 2016 that the site’s three main writers included Colin Lokey, who quit the blog; credit derivatives strategist Tim Backshall; and a Bulgarian-born former analyst named Daniel Ivandjiiski. Dow Jones filed documents earlier this month showing that it held a lien on certain ABC Media assets. The lien could help ensure the company receives full payment. “Dow Jones has received the first tranche of Zero Hedge’s payment and is scheduled to receive the second tranche from Zero Hedge in 2021,” the company said. “Dow Jones did not find evidence that Zero Hedge engaged in automated scraping or aggregation of Dow Jones’s articles.”