Students walk through the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on Aug. 18. The school halted in-person classes and reverted back to online courses after several Covid-19 outbreaks. Photographer: Melissa Sue Gerrits/Getty Images Photographer: Melissa Sue Gerrits/Getty Images Curtis Shulman is the director of operations for Hotel State College, a hospitality company that runs a group of six bar-restaurants in State College, Pennsylvania. Home to Penn State’s University Park campus, the town depends heavily on the 45,000-student campus, largest of Penn State’s 24 outposts. “We make 20% of our revenue just from football weekends,” said Shulman. “About 60% of the remaining revenue we make during the school year.” But Penn State students were sent home back in March, when the coronavirus arrived, and lockdown orders forced Schulman to shutter watering holes like the Corner Room, a local staple since 1926. “We had 250 employees and laid everyone off except for two people,” said Shulman. The group’s restaurants partially reopened in June, but are currently operating at only 25% capacity as Covid-19 cases surged over the summer. It’s not yet clear if the start of the school year will offer any better news for State College or for Centre County, where the university is a singularly dominating economic force. About a third of the residents in the State College metro area are Penn State students,  a share that ranks second only to Ithaca, New York, among metros between 1 million and 100,00 people. (The region’s nickname, “Happy Valley,” was coined during the Great Depression, local lore says, because Penn State’s presence kept the worst effects of the crash at bay.) Currently, Penn State is proceeding with plans to offer face-to-face teaching, with a variety of hybrid and online learning options. Returning students have been asked to sign a coronavirus liability waiver, though the university is revising its terms. But there will be no football weekends in 2020: In mid-August, the Big Ten conference announced that it would cancel the season. “We are a city of 42,000, and two-thirds of our residents are students,” said interim mayor Ronald Filippelli at a congressional staff briefing hosted by the National League of Cities on July 20 to discuss how the pandemic has affected the economies of college and university towns. “The absence of students since March has been crippling to our city.” According to the latest survey from the Chronicle of Higher Education, only about 23% of U.S. colleges and universities still plan on holding all or primarily in-person classes this fall, while 15% would offer a hybrid of online and in-person instruction. For the rest, the fall semester will be all or primarily virtual. Those plans have been in a state of flux throughout the summer as local and state guidance and coronavirus case counts shifted. The perils of bringing students back to campus have already been vividly illustrated by the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, where multiple clusters of Covid-19 outbreaks brought a swift end to the university’s plans for in-person instruction. Meanwhile, the fate of local businesses that depend on student dollars remains unclear. Many of the towns and cities that host the more than 4,000 colleges and universities in the U.S. are built on a seasonal model, earning the bulk of their revenue between August and May, when school is in session. All of that changed last spring, leaving local leaders and residents with a difficult dilemma: They fear the virus risks that returning students bring — and the economic devastation that awaits without the cash they spend. “The retail sector was built around catering to a student population. Truly, we don’t know what the fall will look like.” At the NLC briefing, mayors and city managers from college towns in Iowa, Ohio, North Carolina and Missouri shared similar stories of financial pain, in hopes of convincing the federal lawmakers to provide $500 billion in direct flexible funds to help college towns fend off fiscal collapse. The crisis that university towns face is just one facet of a looming economic catastrophe for America’s cities: Over the next three years, U.S. municipalities could suffer a $360 billion loss, the NLC estimates. Pennsylvania’s towns and cities stand to be among the worst hit, according the NLC, with overall revenue losses topping 40%. In Ames, Iowa, the home of Iowa State University is posting a $9.1 million shortfall for the 2019-20 fiscal year due to Covid response. “Local hotels have already lost $8.9 million in revenue since March, and two hotels have closed,” said Gloria Betcher, an Ames city council member and chair of the NLC’s University Communities Council. In Athens, Ohio, Mayor Steve Patterson reports that his town is also been hurting since Ohio University students were sent home. “Loss of population means loss of revenue,” he said. “Residents are struggling to pay water bills, but we still need to maintain the system. The retail sector was built around catering to a student population. Truly, we don’t know what the fall will look like.” Even for those towns whose colleges are opening for in-person teaching, the pandemic stands to radically change daily life. Extracurricular activities like sporting events, concerts, fraternity and sorority parties, and other school gatherings are canceled or on hold; dining halls have shuttered; dorms have strict new restrictions. To accommodate distancing measures and lower the risk of roommate transmission, several Boston-area colleges are exploring renting hotel rooms for students. With many classes virtual and the attractions of campus life off-limits, it’s harder to get students interested in returning, local leaders said during the NLC meeting. The college town crash is particularly bitter because, prior to the pandemic, many of city leaders noted their economies were on an upswing: In 2019, higher-ed dominated cities were projected to see a 11% increase in employment, according to a McKinsey & Company report. Now that jobs picture is far darker, as Covid-staggered schools are instead shedding jobs. The Chronicle of Higher Education reported data collected by the Labor Department in May that found the number of people employed in higher education dropped 19,200 between February and March. “Our university is the main employer in North Central Pennsylvania,” said State College’s Filippelli. “It not only employs locally, but four or five counties surrounding us.” To rescue its budget, State College is halting major capital projects; improvements to infrastructure, waste management and historic district restoration have been put on hold. Public transportation demand has plummeted, along with ridership revenue. In a bid to help downtown businesses, the city suspended its municipal parking program, which has resulted in about $750,000 in losses. “We have a $200 million debt [bond] payment due in the fall,” said Filippelli. The coronavirus delivered another, less obvious blow to student-dominated communities: Ames’ Betcher expressed fears of a census undercount, since students left in March, just as U.S. Census ballots arrived. “Ames spends over $400,000 to obtain an accurate census count. This year, the student census tracts lag behind the rest of the community, showing under 50% of residents are reporting,” she said. The loss of international students — a major source of revenue for many U.S. colleges and universities — represents a particularly brutal loss for schools and the towns they support. Following efforts by the Trump administration to revoke foreign student visas if those students planned to take all online classes, dozens of schools sued; the executive order was rescinded, but new guidelines from the U.S. immigration department say this rule will still apply to new incoming international students. A July report from the Institute for International Education found that half of U.S. colleges received fewer applications from international students, and a report from the National Foundation for American Policy warns that international enrollment could drop 63% to 98% from 2018-19 levels as students avoid U.S. schools. With more than 8,000 international students enrolled at Penn State, the residents of State College will feel their absence acutely. “The international students that went home can’t come back — that is a big part of spending in a college town,” said Geoff Brugler, owner of Appalachian Outdoors. Brugler, who is also a Penn State parent, says sales for camping and other outdoor-related activities have picked up over the summer, but apparel sales have gone down. He, like other small local businesses, has had to “do more with less” in terms of store operations. The store, which opened in 1974, qualified for an Economic Injury Disaster Loan from the Small Business Administration and also received PPP funding. “If we didn’t have that, things would be really different,” he said. “That money has kept us going.” Further federal small-business relief is uncertain, however, so it’s going to be up to the students to keep Happy Valley in business — if they don’t get sent home early. On that front, anxiety is rising. One Penn State fraternity has already been suspended for hosting a “maskless” social, the Centre Daily Times reports; as at many other colleges, large gatherings of partying students have raised outbreak fears among community members.  Freshmen. pic.twitter.com/fmjyAqzEaq Penn State is set to begin classes on Monday.