We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Global coronavirus cases passed 25 million, according to data from Johns Hopkins University, with India setting the record for the world’s highest single-day increase. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party has plunged in the polls over the government’s handling of the crisis and school exams. Police in Berlin clashed with far-right activists after protests against Germany’s restrictions drew an estimated 38,000 people. More than 300,000 people have registered for Hong Kong’s free coronavirus tests amid a two-week drive to screen a large proportion of its 7 million residents. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Record daily increase pushes India nearer toward second worst-hit nation Source: Johns Hopkins University  The popularity of Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party has collapsed over the past five months, according to an Opinium poll, losing a 26-point lead amid disapproval of the government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis and an education fiasco. The Conservatives and the main opposition Labour Party are now tied at 40%, according to the poll. Johnson’s party has struggled amid criticism of his handling of the pandemic, which left Britain with the highest death toll in Europe, and an exam-results fiasco that upset parents and led to claims of incompetence. Grades were awarded to school-leavers for examinations they never sat. Hungary posted record new cases for a single day, with the number of Covid-19 cases rising by 292, to a total of 5,961. The Hungarian cabinet has ordered to restrict entry into the country as of Sept. 1 for most foreigners and has set a two-week quarantine for locals returning home. Indonesia’s capital, Jakarta, also posted a record single-day spike of 1,094 new cases. Germany’s daily coronavirus infections fell, while the infection rate rose above the critical threshold of one. There were 709 new cases in the 24 hours through Sunday morning, taking the total to 242,835, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That’s less than half of Saturday’s increase of 1,555. At the peak of the pandemic in the spring, Germany registered almost 7,000 new infections. At the same time, the reproduction number -- the average number of people infected by one person with the virus – rose to 1.04 on from 0.94 the previous day, according to the latest report from the RKI public health institute. It is the first time in six days that the number rose above the key threshold of one. Although case numbers have started to decrease in some states, the development over the past weeks remains concerning, RKI said. Sinopec posted its first-ever loss over a half-year as pandemic lockdowns and the oil price crash continue to weigh on the oil giant’s earnings even while China’s economy recovers. The company plans to boost refining output in the second half as the economy continues to revive after the pandemic. Sinopec forecast that it would process 130 million tons of crude in the second half, compared with 111 million in the first half. Deutsche Lufthansa AG is working on more belt-tightening measures that could result in the elimination of 20,000 more jobs, according to newspaper NZZ am Sonntag. The steps, currently being hammered out by the German airline’s management, would be for September, the Swiss newspaper reported on Sunday, citing two people it didn’t identify. A spokesman for Lufthansa declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg. The newspaper quoted a spokesman as saying there were no new job reduction plans. India set a single-day record of 78,761 cases, according to data from the Health Ministry. The U.S. had set the previous highest number of 77,638 on July 17, according to Agence-France Presse. The total number of cases in India went past the 3.5-million mark and the death toll exceeded 63,000, according to government data. India is third in the world behind the U.S. and Brazil in terms of infections and fourth for fatalities, according to Johns Hopkins data. Egypt’s health minister warned that a second coronavirus wave could emerge due to dismissal of precautionary measures, according to Egypt Today. Schools in the United Arab Emirates are set to reopen Sunday with new precautionary measures set in place, Khaleej Times reported. Some Dubai schools decided to postpone campus reopening after being unable to carry out all required Covid-19 tests. Hong Kong has embarked on the world’s biggest experiment in voluntary testing. Radio Television Hong Kong said that as of 8 a.m. Sunday, 310,000 people had already signed up for the free virus test. The two-week effort aims to reach a high percentage of its 7 million residents. Government ministers on Sunday stepped up their campaign, urging people to sign up as soon as possible, RTHK reported. Officials said more than 40 testing sites had already been fully booked on the launch day of the tests - and authorities will decide whether or not to extend the program, depending on the public’s response. Read: Hong Kong’s Free Virus Tests for All Is an Experiment in Trust The Balkan state, where more than half of the 1.8 million population is under the age of 25, has recorded 54.2 fatalities per million people resulting from Covid-19 in the past week -- just ahead of second-placed Colombia, according to Bloomberg calculations based on data from Johns Hopkins University. Johns Hopkins doesn’t update its data for Kosovo as regularly as it does with other countries. Numbers published on the Facebook page of the Kosovo National Institute of Public Health show Kosovo had 37.2 deaths per million people over the 7 days through Aug. 26. That would place it fourth in the world for that period, according to Bloomberg calculations. South Korea added 299 more coronavirus cases in 24 hours vs 323 a day earlier, raising the total tally to 19,699, according to data from Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. Saturday’s numbers included 283 locally infected cases, most of them in Seoul. There were two more deaths, taking the total tally to 323. Brazil, the country with the world’s second-highest number of infections, reported 758 deaths in the past 24 hours and 41,350 new cases. More than 3.8 million cases have been confirmed, while the number fatalities has exceeded 120,000. Mexico reported 5,974 new confirmed Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 591,712, according to data released by the Health Ministry on Saturday night. Covid-19 deaths rose by 673 to 63,819. A worker disinfects a house in the municipality of Xochimilco in Mexico City, on Aug. 26. Photographer: Alfredo Estrella/AFP via Getty Images Finance Minister Arturo Herrera told ruling party lawmakers that next year’s budget will be tighter as the government seeks to rein in debt after steep losses in the peso this year, news site El Universal reported. Victoria state, the epicenter of the pandemic in Australia, reported 114 new Covid-19 infections for Saturday, an increase from Friday’s 94 cases, which had been the fewest since July 4. The state’s health department also reported Sunday via Twitter that there were 11 deaths, a reduction from the previous day’s 18. Metro rail services have been permitted to resume in a graded manner from Sept. 7. Social, political and cultural and religious gatherings with a limit of 100 people permitted from Sept. 21 as per the new guidelines. States won’t be allowed to impose local lockdowns within state or city limits other than in containment zones. Schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed until Sept. 30. The number of new coronavirus cases in Texas climbed by 4,732, or 0.8%, to 606,530, the Department of State Health Services said on its website, less than the 0.9% average over the previous week. Deaths increased by 154 to 12,420. New infections have retreated from records of more than 10,000 a day at the peak of Texas’ outbreak in mid-July. People gather at the Victory Column during a protest against coronavirus-related restrictions and government policy in Berlin on Aug. 29. Photographer: Sean Gallup/Getty Images Berlin police clashed with far-right protesters and made about 200 arrests after tens of thousands of people rallied mostly peacefully against German restrictions to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Smaller protests were reported in London and Paris. Demonstrators in Berlin held up signs saying, “End the coronavirus dictatorship,” and heard a protest leader call for Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government to resign. An estimated 38,000 people took part in a march and rally near key federal government buildings on Saturday, broadcaster ARD cited the capital’s interior minister, Andreas Geisel, as saying. Daily cases in Germany are hovering near a four-month high, with 1,555 new infections reported on Saturday. WATCH: Protesters were arrested during a demonstration in Berlin against Germany’s #coronavirus restrictions.Police ordered to disband the demonstration due to participants not following social distancing rules pic.twitter.com/FvgSOceGw5 California reported 4,981 new virus cases, the lowest daily count since Aug. 4 and below the 14-day average of 5,725. There have been 693,839 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the state, according to the health department’s website. Deaths climbed by 144 to 12,834. Governor J.B. Pritzker proclaimed a “solemn day” as Illinois surpassed 8,000 virus deaths, a day after the state increased the number of counties considered to be at a “warning level” to 30 from 20. New infections and hospitalizations have been climbing in Illinois for the past two months. The state reported 11 deaths for a total of 8,008 and 1,889 new cases for a total of 231,363. Today is a solemn day in Illinois as we’ve now lost 8,000 lives to covid-19.As we mourn the family, friends and neighbors who have been taken too soon, let’s do our part to prevent more senseless tragedy. Wear a mask. Watch your distance. Wash your hands. Every action counts. — With assistance by Anand Krishnamoorthy, Nick Rigillo, Veronika Gulyas, David Verbeek, and Thomas Kutty Abraham