Photographer: Hakon Mosvold Larsen/AFP/Getty Images Photographer: Hakon Mosvold Larsen/AFP/Getty Images The hedge fund manager selected to run Norway’s $1.2 trillion sovereign wealth fund faces growing political opposition after a parliamentary majority emerged to demand that his contract be reviewed for potential conflicts of interest. Nicolai Tangen, the founder of AKO Capital LLP, is due to start as chief executive of the world’s biggest wealth fund on Sept. 1. But on Wednesday, Norway’s Progress Party threw its weight behind demands that the government review his recruitment process. “Progress fears that this situation can hurt the reputation and the management of the oil fund,” as the wealth fund is known locally, said lawmaker Hans Andreas Limi in an emailed statement. The development creates a seemingly intractable conflict around the giant investor, after the government made clear it doesn’t think it has the legal right to intervene. But with the Progress Party’s announcement, the ruling coalition -- parts of which have also openly criticized the hiring process -- is now outnumbered. Tangen is under pressure to do more to distance himself from his hedge fund. He’s already reduced his stake in AKO to 43% and put his holdings in a blind trust. He’s also made clear he doesn’t want to run the wealth fund if it means he’ll be forced to divest. Read: World’s Biggest Wealth Fund Wants ‘Clarification’ on New CEO It’s sill unclear what parliament’s Finance Committee will decide when it submits its conclusions, which it’s expected to do by Friday. “This conflict must be solved immediately,” Limi of the Progress Party said. Political sentiment around Tangen’s candidacy soured after a key watchdog overseeing his recruitment renewed its criticism of the process last week. Norges Bank, which manages the wealth fund and handled the hiring process, failed to adequately address conflicts of interest, including AKO’s use of tax havens, according to the watchdog. It also criticized Norges Bank’s decision to leave Tangen off an official list of candidates, which the bank has acknowledged was wrong. On Tuesday, the acting CEO of the wealth fund, Trond Grande, said Tangen is still expected to start on Sept. 1. Read: Hedge Fund Manager Drops Control of Fortune for $1 Trillion Job