A medical worker administers a rapid Covid-19 test to an employee at San Francisco International Airport in California, on Aug. 27. India reported more than 77,000 new infections, its highest number of cases for a second straight day. Japanese Premier Shinzo Abe, whose approval rating has slid as Covid-19 pummels the economy, is resigning due to health reasons. U.S. President Donald Trump argued voters can’t trust Joe Biden to navigate the pandemic as he made a case for a second term, defending his response to the virus that has killed more than 180,000 Americans. Cases also rose in Germany, even as Europe seeks to avoid a repeat of broad movement restrictions. French consumer spending rose less than forecast in July and Spanish retail sales continued to decline, a signal that the strong rebound seen after lockdowns ended could lose steam. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Record daily increase pushes India nearer toward second worst-hit nation Source: Johns Hopkins University  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who resigned due to health reasons, warned that “winter is coming” -- an ominous reminder of the challenges still ahead as the world struggles to contain the virus. He announced plans to bolster testing capacity and said protecting the elderly will be critical. Abe’s resignation, ending his run as the country’s longest serving premier, comes as the virus continues to spread in Japan, triggering the worst contraction on record in the April-June quarter. As cases increased in recent weeks, Abe’s approval slid to a record low of 35.4% in a poll published by JNN in early August, with critics saying his policies have come too late and fallen short of needs. India saw its biggest jump in new cases for a second day in a row, reporting more than 77,000 additional infections. India’s daily tally is now close to the worst days seen in the U.S. and Brazil, the only two countrieswith more cases. India’s death toll is also mounting, with fatalities topping 1,000 for the third straight day. The number of casualties is rapidly catching up with Mexico, which has the third highest death toll in the world. Covid-19 continues to accelerate through the world’s second most populous country, with cases totaling more than 3.3 million, as the disease spreads from its cities into the vast hinterland. French consumer spending rose less than forecast in July and Spanish retail sales continued to decline, a reminder that the strong rebound seen after the end of the coronavirus lockdowns could lose steam. Spending in France increased 0.5% from the previous month, far below the 1.2% expected by economists. The figures came alongside a report showing the economy shrank 13.8% in the second quarter, unrevised from an initial estimate. In Spain, retail sales dropped almost 4% year-on-year in the fifth straight monthly decline. A slowdown in tourism has been a huge hit to the economy, with the biggest decline in sales seen in holiday regions such as Mallorca and Ibiza. Economies across Europe bounced back strongly once restrictions to contain infections were lifted, but the big question is the longer-term sustainability of the recovery. A recent acceleration in the daily count of coronavirus cases in several countries is adding to worries and may keep consumers at home. It also increases the risk that governments will put in place more restrictions. Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA said it will need additional capital to avert insolvency after the coronavirus laid waste to the airline’s business model of discount long-haul travel, which has come to a complete standstill. The airline, which was already struggling pre-Covid 19, was forced to ground almost its entire fleet as well as furlough or outright cut 8,000 employees, representing 80% of its workforce. Meanwhile, London’s Gatwick airport said it now expects 2020 passenger traffic about 65%-70% below 2019 levels. The airport is planning a restructuring that could lead to the elimination of another 600 jobs -- nearly a quarter of the remaining workforce -- after some of its biggest customers abandoned operations there. Meanwhile, Kenya Airways Plc expects demand for air travel for the rest of this year to be less than half the level in 2019 due to the ongoing effect of the pandemic. Greggs shares fell as much as 2.7% after the food-to-go chain confirmed an outbreak of Covid-19 at its distribution center in Leeds. The BBC reported an undisclosed number of people at the center tested positive and the facility has been deep-cleaned. U.K. has taken a more “political approach” to managing the health crisis and has wrongly classified all of France as risky for the virus, Clement Beaune, France’s junior minister for Europe, said in an interview on Europe 1. France is in talks with the U.K. on travel rules and has said it would impose reciprocal rules. Beaune said he regrets the lack of coordination in Europe on travel. The Thai government is set to offer 24 billion baht ($769 million) in loans to seven local airlines to help them counter the blow from the coronavirus outbreak as authorities firm up plans to revive tourism by gradually easing travel restrictions. Germany’s daily coronavirus infections rose and stayed close to a four-month high. There were 1,561 new cases in the 24 hours through Friday morning, taking the total to 240,571, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That’s close to Saturday’s increase of 1,737, the highest since late April. Chancellor Angela Merkel said Thursday that further easing steps isn’t justified given the recent uptick in daily cases, and urged Germans to refrain from non-essential travel to countries designated as risk areas. Between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m., restaurants in Seoul will be only allowed to provide delivery or package services. They will only allow takeout, delivery services at franchise cafes regardless of hours. The measures will be effective from Aug. 30 through Sept. 6 The coronavirus pandemic has made the job of predicting India’s economic growth -- already a fraught process in normal times -- even harder. Economists are bracing for possible big swings in the quarterly gross domestic product data scheduled for release on Aug. 31. The measures, including keeping business operations at half of their capacity, will remain in place through Sept. 10, Jakarta Governor Anies Baswedan said on his Instagram account. Jakarta reported 760 new cases on August 27, causing a record 2,719 daily jump on the national tally on Thursday to 162,884. The capital remains one of the hot spots for Covid-19 with 36,213 in total infections. Despite the surge, authorities are planning to reopen cinemas to help revive the economy. Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun says he is aware of opinions on the need of raising social distancing rules to the highest level but the level 3 would be the “final card” for the nation, given huge economic and social impact. The current social distancing rules in Seoul metropolitan areas, which was scheduled to end this weekend, will be extended for one more week. Texas reported a 6.6% drop in hospitalized virus patients in the past day, as it crossed 12,000 total fatalities. The state had 4,489 Covid-19 hospitalizations, the lowest in more than two months, according to Texas Department of State Health Services data. Fatalities rose by 265 to 12,070, and Texas counted 5,059 new infections, bringing the cumulative case tally to 597,737. A drop in fatalities generally lags behind an outbreak’s overall improvement. Colleges and universities around the U.S. are being increasingly hit with virus outbreaks. The New York Times tallied at least 6,600 cases across the country as of Wednesday. Among them, Bloombsburg University in Pennsylvania has reported 90 cases, only one not a student, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported. That number doubled in just two days, the paper reported. Central Michigan University reported 110 confirmed cases and 7 probable ones, Central Michigan Life, the school newspaper, reported on Twitter. Brazil reported 44,235 cases, down from 47,161 the previous day, for a total of 3,761,391. Another 984 deaths in the nation with the worst outbreak after the U.S. were reported, fewer than the 1,085 reported the previous day. Total fatalities are now 118,649. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.8% as compared with the same time Wednesday to 5.85 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was in line with the average daily gain of 0.7% over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.6% to 180,249. Florida reported 611,991 cases, up 0.5% from a day earlier. California reported 4,430 new cases, a 0.7% increase and less than the two-week daily average of 6,456. Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds ordered bars, breweries, wineries and night clubs in six counties to close for more than three weeks starting Thursday as Covid-19 infections rise among young people. “It is imperative that we implement some immediate steps to slow the spread among young adults,” Reynolds, one of few U.S. governors who hasn’t imposed a statewide stay-at-home order, told reporters Thursday. She stopped short of ordering people to wear face coverings, saying that’s “not enforceable.” The U.S. government will acquire almost all of the 15-minute Covid tests Abbott Laboratories plans to produce this year after the company was granted emergency approval for use of the test, according to people familiar with the deal. The government will pay $750 million for 150 million tests, the people said, asking not to be identified because the deal hasn’t been formally announced. Approval for the test came on Wednesday, and analysts quickly agreed the new assay -- which works without relying on laboratory equipment -- could help ease delays that have crimped much of the nation’s testing capacity. France reported 6,111 new cases, the most since late March, and the Paris mayor’s office expanded a face-covering mandate for public spaces to the whole city, not just certain busy areas, starting Friday. Earlier Thursday, Prime Minister Jean Castex said the government wants to avoid a renewed national lockdown, though it remains a last resort. Ireland is seeing a “worrying trend” in coronavirus cases, the health ministry warned, as case numbers continue to increase. The country is now seeing about 33 cases per 100,000 people compared to three in June, ministry adviser Philip Nolan told reporters in Dublin, while the number of people being admitted to the hospital is starting to rise. The warnings come a day after health minister Stephen Donnelly said the country is at a tipping point that could result in another nationwide lockdown. Ireland reported 93 new cases with no deaths Thursday. There have been 1,535 cases over the past two weeks. — With assistance by Adveith Nair, and Jeff Sutherland