The Christopher Columbus monument in Pittsburgh. Christopher Columbus monuments have been falling swiftly across the U.S. over the past few years, and with renewed momentum since the George Floyd protests against police violence began this summer. In July, even the city of Columbus, Ohio — named after the Genoese navigator who’s credited with discovering America — voted to take down the Columbus statue in front of City Hall, amidst a phalanx of Black Lives Matter demonstrators. But a Columbus statue still stands tall — 50 feet tall exactly — 200 miles away in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, at the entrance of the city’s bucolic Schenley Park. A growing chorus of Pittsburgh residents would like the statue removed. A Change.org petition with close to 14,000 signatures has been circulating calling for its banishment, stating that Columbus “didn't ‘discover’ America, he found native-inhabited land and claimed it for himself, using extreme violence and cruelty.” Others have written letters and sent emails directly to the city requesting the same. The Change.org petition names the Department of City Planning Art Commission and Mayor Bill Peduto as the “decision makers” for the statue. While both of those parties are in on the decision, Pittsburgh residents are stumped about what’s taking so long for Columbus to come down, and why it appears their otherwise progressive mayor — who previously wasn’t shy about taking down another problematic statue in the city — has been holding up the process for this one. In 2017, Mayor Peduto led the process to remove a statue of the musician Stephen Foster, known for stealing music from Black people and spinning them into minstrel songs. The statue also featured a shoeless enslaved Black person sitting below Foster’s waist playing a banjo. But Peduto has taken a notably less aggressive stance on the removal of the Columbus statue. Peduto told CityLab that he wasn’t “going to weigh in on whether it would be appropriate or not,” to remove the Columbus statue because he doesn’t “want to be accused of trying to sway the [art] commission in either direction.” During the campaign to get the Foster statue removed, by contrast, he stated his preference for removing the statue well before the art commission had its public hearings and vote on the matter. Before Peduto’s comments this week to CityLab, the mayor had hardly weighed in at all on the Columbus monument, but his silence only contributed to procedural uncertainty that has prevented requests to remove the statue from moving forward. Such confusion, or perceptions that cities are using “process” to stall or drag out resolutions, have been  common in bids to remove monuments, and they even explain at least some of the  citizen-led demolition of monuments. Efforts in Pittsburgh to have the Columbus statue deleted from public space via the city’s sanctioned procedure — a quite fuzzy procedure —  are emblematic of just how opaque and discouraging that government process can be. The conflict in Pittsburgh is about who has the authority to decide whether or not Columbus should be removed. At one point, this answer seemed clear: Peduto’s spokesperson Tim McNulty told local news outlet the Public Source that the decision rested with the art commission. But when the art commission brought it up at its July 22 meeting, the city’s planning department stopped discussion on it, saying that it was not on the agenda, and also that it had to be formally introduced to the art commission by the mayor. This appeared to be news to the commissioners themselves, who pushed back with questions about how to respond to Pittsburgh residents who wanted to discuss the Columbus statue issue. Pittsburgh resident Prem Rajgopal, who’s been asking the city about removing the Columbus statue for months, said at the meeting, “Can we as private citizens come forward with a proposal of replacement on our own without mayoral support, as the mayor’s office has largely been ignoring us?” The matter was left unresolved, or at least tabled until the commission’s next meeting on August 26, where it is on the agenda for discussion — but not for a deciding vote. Peduto told CityLab that he was awaiting a recommendation from the art commission to inform his thinking on the matter, but also said, “at the end of the day that will be my decision.” Confusion around whether the decision ultimately lies with the art commission, as the mayor’s office initially said, or with the mayor himself, has left people close to the process bristling. “The mayor hasn’t directed us or tasked us to do something,” about the Columbus statue issue, asked Art Commissioner Kary Arimoto-Mercer at the meeting, “but is he also tasking us to not do anything?” The art commission hasn’t sat idly by awaiting the mayor’s blessings. Its chair, Rob Indovina, sent a letter to Peduto on August 3 reinforcing the commission’s stance that it has the final say. He cited a city code that says, “Any work of art shall be removed, relocated, or altered, in any way that may be ordered, by a vote passed, and approved in writing by two-thirds of all members of the Commission.” Indovina told CityLab that the letter he sent to Peduto represents “the unanimous opinion of the Commissioners as undersigned,” and deferred to the upcoming August meeting for further comment. In the meantime, some people in Pittsburgh have expressed their frustration in less formalized ways. Besides the petitions and emails to city hall, the statue has also been vandalized several times over. It was most recently vandalized during the George Floyd protests, when the words “OG PIG and “COLONIZER” were spray-painted on the granite base. While the statue was cleaned, you can still see the impressions of these tags stained in the granite base like watermarks. Throughout most of history, children have been taught that Columbus was mostly a sea explorer and spice trader, but scholarship has emerged that he was no mere friendly tourist, but rather America’s first and perhaps most brutal kind of gentrifier. Records show that he enslaved indigenous inhabitants of places now called the Americas when not violently slaughtering many of them. And it is well-known at this point that he was responsible for the deaths of many more indigenous people through the diseases he and his European crew brought with him. Which is why cities have been increasingly canceling  Columbus Day holidays and replacing them with new celebrations such as Indigenous People’s Day. It’s also why a wave of Columbus-statue toppings, forcefully and otherwise, have overtaken cities this year: Before Columbus, Ohio, there was Chicago, Baltimore, Buffalo, San Francisco, and Richmond, Virginia. In Boston, a Columbus statue was decapitated, and it wasn’t the first time; the city’s arts commission is now studying what to do with the headless monument. In Philadelphia, the city’s art commission just voted to remove its Columbus statue from public view. A court issued a stay to keep it in place, but Philly Mayor Jim Kenney has indicated he is willing to defy the ruling to carry out removal plans. Meanwhile, in Pittsburgh, support for leaving the Columbus statue alone is particularly strong among Pittsburgh’s Italian community, which sees him as a rich part of their history and legacy. The Italian Sons and Daughters of America, a national organization which is based in Pittsburgh, released a statement calling the forced toppling and beheading of Columbus statues “hate crimes.” “We … strongly condemn the defacing of historical monuments and expect elected officials and law enforcement to protect our public memorials from further damage so that a true conversation on their place in modern society can be organized,” wrote ISDA vice president John Viola, also president of the National Italian American Foundation, for The New York Times in 2017 when Columbus statues were attacked following the Charlottesville, Virginia, “Unite the Right” white supremacist rally and counter-protest. Pittsburgh will finally have the opportunity to have that conversation on August 26 at the art commission meeting, which will be conducted via Zoom and is open to the public. What happens after that is still up in the air. — With assistance by Sarah Holder