A member of staff prepares gambling chips at am MGM casino resort. Photographer: Anthony Wallace/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Anthony Wallace/AFP via Getty Images Global corporations have announced more than 200,000 job cuts or buyouts in recent weeks, a worrying sign that more losses will come as furloughs implemented early in the pandemic turn into permanent layoffs. MGM Resorts International and Coca-Cola Co. were the latest examples on Friday, joining an increasing number of companies that are trimming their workforce after economies emerged from shutdowns. Almost a quarter of U.S. workers that were temporarily laid off probably won’t come back, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates. The cuts cast a shadow on the fragile rebound in the global economy at a time when Covid-19 continues to pose a threat and many government stimulus programs have run their course. In the U.S., the re-hiring of furloughed employees is key to further improvement in the labor market after millions of people lost their jobs at the onset of the health crisis. The impact is widespread. Airlines were hit the earliest by a collapse in travel, and the job losses have now extended to retailers, entertainment and cosmetics companies. Here are some of the largest job-cut plans and buyouts announced in the recent weeks: As of July 24, more than 400,000 airline workers had been fired, furloughed or told they may lose their jobs in the future. More have been announced since, including: Read More: Jobs Are Being Wiped Out at Airlines, And There’s Worse to Come The U.S. retail industry furloughed more than 1 million workers in early April amid lockdowns. Many may become permanent. Cosmetics giant Estee Lauder, which had implemented furloughs during the shutdowns, now plans to reduce its workforce by 1,500 to 2,000 jobs worldwide, or about 3% of total staff. With no sign that flying will recover anytime soon, makers of planes and engines have started to shed workers. Raytheon said at the end of July that it slashed about 8,000 jobs in its commercial aviation businesses, after disclosing furloughs in May. Live entertainment, casinos and movie theaters will also take a while to recover. MGM, the largest operator of casinos on the Las Vegas Strip, has been struggling to fill its rooms and casinos since Nevada began reopening in early June. Two of the company’s casinos, the Park MGM in Las Vegas and Empire City in New York, remain closed. Friday the company said it’s sending pink slips to about 18,000 employees, more than one-quarter of its pre-pandemic U.S. workforce. With the pandemic constraining commerce, many firms are facing the prospect of losing billions of dollars on soured loans. While some large European banks have said they need to cut workers, U.S. banks have largely abstained -- except for Wells Fargo & Co. — With assistance by Reade Pickert, Gerry Smith, Hannah Levitt, Mary Schlangenstein, and Nico Grant