Telecom Italia headquarters in Rossano, Italy. Telecom Italia SpA kicked off a government-backed plan to create a single broadband network in Italy with the separation of its landline grid, its most valuable asset. Italy is racing to bridge the digital divide with European peers, and Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte has made telecommunications infrastructure one of the priorities of his push for a broader role of the state in the economy. The plan should eventually lead to a national broadband network company open to international investors and capable of shouldering the expense of rolling out a state-of-the-art fiber grid. As a first step, Telecom Italia, a former state monopoly, agreed to sell 37.5% of its landline cables running from the street to premises -- the so-called secondary network -- to the infrastructure unit of investment firm KKR & Co. for 1.8 billion euros ($2.2 billion). Swisscom AG’s Fastweb SpA will hold 4.5% of the new network company, which will be called FiberCop and have an initial enterprise value of 7.7 billion euros. On Monday, Telecom Italia also approved a memorandum of understanding with state-backed lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, paving the way for a future merger of FiberCop with Open Fiber, Italy’s other grid company. CDP is already an investor in both Telecom Italia and Open Fiber. State-backed lender CDP is an investor in both of Italy's telecom networks Source: Telecom Italia, Bloomberg * Italy's Finance Minstry is Enel's largest shareholder The new moves cap a remarkable turnaround in relations between Rome and the ex-monopolist, after the government intervened in early August to delay the stake sale to KKR. Telecom Italia will own at least 50.1% of the combined entity, to be called AccessCo, while the independence and third-party status of the company will be guaranteed by a shared governance mechanism, Telecom Italia and CDP said in separate statements. The deal is expected to close during the first quarter of 2021, after regulatory approvals, Telecom Italia said. “The agreement with KKR Infrastructure and Fastweb is the first step toward creating an Italian digital fiber network company, which is a turning point for telecommunications in the country,” Telecom Italia said in a statement. “The operation will speed up the switch of customers from copper to fiber and will help reduce the digital divide in Italy.”