Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko warned the European Union not to interfere in the country’s post-election crisis, as his opponent appealed to the bloc for support. “There’s no need to point at Belarus today to divert attention from the problems that exist in France, the U.S., Germany and so on,” Lukashenko told his security council Wednesday, according to the state-run Belta news service. “The leaders of the Western states offer us negotiations, conversations. And at the same time they continue to push their agenda.” He spoke after opposition candidate Svetlana Tikhanovskaya urged European leaders to “support the awakening of Belarus” in a new video address in English from exile in Lithuania. “Mr Lukashenko has lost all the legitimacy in the eyes of our nation and the world,” she said. The 27 EU leaders are holding an emergency conference call Wednesday to discuss the brutal crackdown on opposition protests that erupted after Lukashenko claimed a landslide victory in the Aug. 9 election. At least three people were killed as police beat demonstrators and detained nearly 7,000, allegedly torturing some of those in custody. Undeterred, hundreds of thousands of people have taken to the streets in the capital, Minsk, and other cities to demand Lukashenko’s resignation. Lukashenko has refused to bend under the pressure and appealed to Russia for support. In a show of force, he ordered the military to deploy in “full combat readiness” to Belarus’s EU borders on the eve of the leaders’ summit, complaining of unspecified security threats. Why the Strongman of Belarus Is Fighting for Survival: QuickTake Belarus authorities haven’t asked for Russian assistance under a collective defense pact, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on a conference call Wednesday. Russia sees attempts at outside interference in Belarus as part of a struggle for influence in the countries of the former Soviet Union, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in an interview with state TV Wednesday. “This does not mean the election was perfect,” Lavrov said, according to a transcript on the ministry’s website. “This is also recognized by the Belarusian leadership, which is trying to start a dialogue with citizens protesting against what they consider to be infringements of their rights.” After keeping a low profile for several days, riot police began to secure some locations in Belarus’s capital, Minsk, on Wednesday as protests continued in support of opposition calls for Lukashenko to resign. The EU has said the election was neither “free nor fair.” According to one official, the leaders may decide to call for a new vote and reinforce the need for sanctions with a view that their credibility is at stake with an escalating conflict at their doorsteps. “When a dictator has come to the end of the road, it’s best to find a way forward without further violence,” Wolfgang Schaeuble, president of Germany’s lower house of parliament, said in an interview Tuesday with Deutsche Welle. The EU “must signal clearly that it will use everything at its disposal to push for human rights, democracy and non-violence” in Belarus, he said. Belarus Eurobonds due in 2021 rose for a second day, paring losses after falling to the lowest since the bond was first traded in June earlier this week. The yield has risen 56 basis points so far this month to 7.43%. Russian President Vladimir Putin discussed the Belarus crisis in separate calls with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday. Lukashenko said Putin then informed him of the conversations, marking the third time they spoke since the weekend. Svetlana Tikhanovskaya in Minsk, Belarus, on Aug. 10. Photographer: Segei Gapon/AFP via Getty Images Putin warned against “exerting pressure on the Belarusian leadership” in his talk with Macron, and told Merkel of the “unacceptability of any attempts at external interference,” according to Kremlin statements. Macron urged Russia to favor calm and dialog regarding Belarus, according to the Elysee Palace, while Merkel told reporters she called Putin to make “it clear that the right to freedom of speech, and to demonstrate, must be present.” Tikhanovskaya, who insists she won the election, said in her video that a national coordination council set up by the opposition will press for a peaceful transition of power and a new presidential ballot under international supervision. Lukashenko said setting up alternative structures “with the goal of seizing power is illegal,” and he threatened to punish those involved, according to Belta. The Kremlin was betting before the election that Lukashenko would manage to extend his rule for a sixth term, while also becoming more dependent on Russia as his harsh tactics alienated the West and made him vulnerable to Moscow’s demands for tighter political and economic integration. The opposition has sought to reassure Russia about future relations as nationwide strikes continued in many state-run enterprises against Lukashenko’s rule. — With assistance by Ilya Arkhipov, Stepan Kravchenko, and Aine Quinn