What's Happening? The Brexit negotiations aren’t even over, but Michel Barnier is already planning a book on the subject. He has four years of notes carefully filed away documenting the European Union’s fraught Brexit deliberations with the British. But the EU chief negotiator, who let slip on Wednesday that he is planning a memoir, won’t be on this year’s Christmas bestseller — he won’t put pen to paper until 2021. “I think it would be worthwhile that I tell how I’ve lived these negotiations in more detail,” Barnier told a business conference in Paris. “I don’t just want to tell how we’ve handled the consequences of Brexit, but also why we need to take time to look into the lessons of Brexit.” Those expecting what the Sun mischievously billed as a “laugh-a-minute memoir” may be disappointed; Barnier’s previous literary efforts include the snappily titled To Rest Or Be Free: The Choice Facing Europe. Still, his insights from the European side of the table mean he is unlikely to have any difficulty finding a publisher. On Twitter, some would-be readers have already started making suggestions for the title. The book’s denouement will depend on what, if any, progress the two sides can make in the next six weeks. With both apparently still at odds over the level playing field and fishing rights, officials are increasingly pessimistic an agreement on future trading terms will be struck and ratified before Dec. 31. Barnier is positioning himself either for the mother of all plot twists — or making an early move in the inevitable blame game if no deal is struck. — Edward Evans For more on global trade, sign up to our daily Supply Lines newsletter. The U.S. Federal Reserve will allow   inflation to pass 2%. There’s now evidence the coronavirus   spreads from toilets. Wuhan beat the virus. Now it’s   shutting out the world. Hurricane Laura and the California fires are   part of the same story. Here’s how to kick-start your career   in what’s left of 2020. Click here for the latest maps and data on the spread of coronavirus. Sign up here for our coronavirus newsletter, and subscribe to our podcast. You can follow us @Brexit on Twitter, and listen to Bloomberg Westminster every weekday. Share the Brexit Bulletin: Colleagues, friends and family can sign up here. For full EU coverage, try the Brussels Edition. For even more: Subscribe to Bloomberg All Access for our unmatched global news coverage.