Hurricane Laura made landfall Thursday morning in southwest Louisiana as a powerful Category 4 storm, making it one of the most powerful hurricanes ever to strike the region. Deadly storm surges, flash floods and devastating winds could inflict more than $15 billion in insured losses. With winds of 150 miles (241 kilometers) per hour, Laura is matching the previous record set in 1856. While it’s not expected to worsen beyond its current strength, the storm surge could penetrate 40 miles inland, with flood waters not fully receding for several days, the National Hurricane Center said. The storm is expected to slam into shore early Thursday with stronger winds than   Hurricane Harvey had when it made landfall in Texas in 2017. For Laura to become a Category 5 hurricane, the highest on the Saffir-Simpson scale, its top winds would need to reach 157 mph. The governors of Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi have declared emergencies. Laura has already killed at least nine people in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Further complicating the situation, Laura is also making landfall during the coronavirus pandemic. The storm has prompted mandatory evacuations in coastal areas, but  such movement could lead to more infections. With the official Atlantic hurricane season just beginning, Laura will be the seventh system to hit the U.S. That's a record for the time of year. It is also the first major hurricane to hit the Gulf Coast since Michael in 2018. The storm is targeting the heart of America's energy industry, prompting mandatory evacuations in and shutting more than 80% of oil production in the Gulf of Mexico and a third of the Gulf Coast’s refining capacity. The storm could cause as much as $25 billion in damage and economic losses, said Chuck Watson, a disaster modeler with Enki Research. The destruction to refineries could cost $5 billion alone. For anyone living in an area that floods or is in the direct path of Laura’s landfall, “there is no calculation to be made: Get out,” Watson said. “Whatever fears you might have about Covid are secondary — even those with health issues that might make riding out a weaker storm an option.” We’ll send curated alerts directly to your inbox on only the most important developments.