Welcome to Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. A military coup in Mali bodes ill for West Africa, where Islamist violence surged after the nation's previous government was toppled in 2012. Mali’s fourth coup since gaining independence from France in 1960 followed weeks of protests demanding President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita resign. Nicknamed the “carrier pigeon,” Keita was seen as more interested in international summits than the needs of his people. The junta now in control insists it acted in the national interest and pledges to hold elections, though it's unclear whether its leaders speak for the entire army or how close they are to the demonstrators. Mahmoud Dicko, a conservative preacher and prominent leader of the protest movement, has announced he’s withdrawing from politics. The international community condemned the coup and regional leaders demanded Keita's reinstatement, but Mali's aversion to outside interference may restrict the efforts of foreign mediators. A 15,000-strong United Nations peacekeeping mission has been unable to curb the growth of Islamist militancy, which has killed thousands in the country and spread to neighbors such as Burkina Faso. At the core of the unrest is a deep-rooted distrust of Mali’s political class. Outside the capital of Bamako, poverty has increased, despite the arrival of billions of dollars in donor money since Keita assumed office. In large swathes of the country, villagers face abuse by ethnic militias, jihadists or the security forces that are supposed to protect them. A new leader will face an uphill battle to bring about meaningful change. Huawei Africa | Kenya, Ethiopia and South Africa are among countries to have backed Huawei after U.S. President Donald Trump moved to bar the Chinese telecommunications giant from doing business with U.S. firms. Huawei hasn’t lost a single order in Africa, where the network-equipment maker has become central to the continent’s growth ambitions. Mauritius Disaster | It may take a decade to restore a delicate ecosystem in Mauritius after a bulk carrier ran aground and spilled oil into the island nation’s waters. As the focus turns to cleaning up the filth, some fishermen fear they may never get their lives back. One question emerging from the fallout: Why was the Brazil-bound vessel there in the first place? Zimbabwe Water | The southern African country’s second-largest city halted running-water supplies as residents reel from a severe drought, ailing infrastructure and an outbreak of waterborne diseases. Meanwhile, the government is locked in a dispute with banks over the cost of relief offered to civil servants and pensioners during the coronavirus pandemic. Virus Response | While countries including Tanzania were accused of downplaying the threat of Covid-19, South Africa did everything by the book. Yet five months later, the country has the world’s fifth-biggest outbreak, after efforts to contain the pandemic collided with an ailing economy and dysfunctional politics. President Cyril Ramaphosa still felt able to relax lockdown restrictions this week, including bans on the sale of alcohol and tobacco. Banking Chief | Citigroup hired Ireti Samuel-Ogbu as its Nigerian country officer, the first time a woman has been appointed to the lender’s top post after 36 years of operating in Africa’s largest economy. She will move to Lagos from London as the West African nation’s banking industry struggles with the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic, a slump in oil prices and a chronic shortage of dollars. Data Watch Coming Up Investec plans to help clients in South Africa install solar power at home to help lower their carbon footprint and avoid the country’s nagging power cuts. The bank is advising customers on installation and pricing options, and those interested can link to their mortgages as a repayment option. The move comes as Eskom, the embattled and debt-laden state electricity giant, resumed rolling blackouts this week after generation units broke down. The company has cut 1,382 gigawatt hours of power this year, the most since at least 2007, despite lower demand during coronavirus lockdowns. Eskom also shuffled some senior managers, with Bheki Nxumalo moving from his position as head of generation to another role within the sprawling group.