A healthcare worker performs a swab test on a person at a Covid-19 drive-thru testing site at Dallas College Eastfield Campus in Mesquite, Texas, U.S., on Aug. 18. Coronavirus infections flared in Europe, with France and Spain reporting their biggest case increases in months. Hong Kong’s outbreak showed signs of easing. In the U.S., New York’s positive-test rate fell to the lowest since the pandemic began in March. President Donald Trump criticized colleges turning to remote learning and alleged health regulators may be delaying an emergency treatment over politics. Greece and Puerto Rico moved to tighten rules after a jump in virus cases. The UAE also saw infections surge, while the death toll in Iran surpassed 20,000. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. U.S. President Donald Trump alleged that health regulators may be delaying the emergency authorization of blood plasma to treat coronavirus patients until after the election to hurt him politically, offering no substantiation for the charge. Donald Trump speaks during a news conference at the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Aug. 19. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Polaris/Bloomberg “I hear great things about it, that’s all I can tell you,” Trump said at a White House news conference Wednesday. “It could be a political decision because you have a lot of people over there that don’t want to rush things because they want to do it after November 3rd,” the date of the election. The use of plasma drawn from people who have survived Covid-19 as a virus treatment has been embraced by some doctors. While seen as safe, clinical trials haven’t yet proved whether the therapy can help people sickened by the coronavirus. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said he’s authorized the city to disconnect utility service at a house in the Hollywood Hills that hosted large parties. “Despite several warnings, this house has turned into a nightclub in the hills, hosting large gatherings in flagrant violation of our public health orders,” Garcetti said in a statement. Water and power were disconnected. A University of Illinois test that uses saliva to detect the coronavirus is showing promise and could help the state curb the pandemic as cases spike to the highest since May, Governor J.B. Pritzker said. The optimism comes after Yale University received an emergency use authorization by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration last week for its coronavirus saliva test, which is used by the National Basketball Association. Piggybacking on that, the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign conducted a bridge study, comparing its test with Yale’s, said Martin Burke, a professor who oversaw the study. The results showed that Illinois’s test was even more sensitive, allowing it to operate under the umbrella of the FDA’s approval, and the university plans to seek independent approval, Burke said. “If ongoing research continues to yield positive results, this has potentially game changing implications,” Pritzker told reporters during a press conference Wednesday. Facing a spike in cases, Puerto Rico is clamping down again, closing beaches, bars, gyms, theaters and casinos through Sept. 11 and putting strict new controls in place for other establishments. Governor Wanda Vazquez announced the new rules, which will take effect Saturday, in a national address Wednesday night. Under the regulations, all businesses except grocery stores, pharmacies and hospitals will be closed on Sundays, and all residents are being asked to stay home on Sundays unless it’s an emergency. Shops and restaurants must enforce the use of masks and hand-washing, in addition to operating at capacities of 25% or less. Team sports are prohibited and all beaches will remain closed except to people engaged in individual exercise. The U.S. commonwealth of 3.2 million people took some of the strictest controls of any U.S. jurisdiction early on in the pandemic, but has seen infections and deaths steadily rise at is has opened up its economy. The island has 27,934 confirmed and suspected cases of the coronavirus and 356 deaths, according to Health Department figures. Texas reported the lowest number of Covid-19 hospitalizations since late June, according to state health department figures. Hospitals in the second-biggest U.S. state had 5,974 virus patients as of late Tuesday, the fewest since June 29. The strain on medical infrastructure continued to ease even as new cases increased by 7,024 to bring the cumulative total to 557,256. Healthcare workers wearing protective gear assist people at a Covid-19 drive-thru testing site in Texas on Aug. 18. Photographer: Cooper Neill/Bloomberg The uproar over data and coding glitches that have undermined confidence in the state’s case, fatality and positivity tallies intensified. The top-ranking county official in a suburban Dallas region that includes towns like Plano and McKinney warned residents the numbers “continue to be plagued by mistakes and errors.” “The Commissioners Court is 100% certain that the COVID-19 data being reported for Collin County is inaccurate,” Collin County Judge Chris Hill wrote on Facebook. “Warning: Collin County is providing COVID-19 numbers and data as a convenience to our residents. However, because we have been made aware of inaccuracies in the Department of State Health Services’ reporting, we must advise residents that Collin County has no confidence in the data currently being provided to us.” Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.8% as compared with the same time Tuesday to 5.51 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. It was the third straight day that cases rose by 0.8%, which was lower than the average daily gain of 0.9% over the past week. Deaths also rose by 0.8%, to 172,511. France reported its biggest increase in new coronavirus cases since early May, before the country emerged from an almost two-month lockdown. New infections totaled 3,776 over the past 24 hours, the government’s health office reported Wednesday, the largest daily jump since May 6. Deaths increased by 17 to 30,468. France, along with neighbors including Spain, Germany and the Netherlands, has been grappling with a resurgence in cases over the past few weeks, even as the number of fatalities remains well below the levels seen during the peak of the pandemic in March and April. Students' desk adhere to social distancing requirements in a classroom at a public elementary school in the Brooklyn borough of New York, U.S., on Aug. 19. Photographer: Jeenah Moon/Bloomberg All New York City public school students and staff should be tested in the 10 days before the system reopens in September, the city’s teacher’s union demanded Wednesday.United Federation of Teachers President Michael Mulgrew said his members still lack confidence that the reopening of the largest U.S. school system can go forward without preventing a new wave of Covid-19, which forced the city’s 1,800 schools to shut in March. The schools are scheduled to reopen with a “blended schedule” that combines remote online instruction with in-school learning in classes of no more than 10 students, one to three days a week. At a news briefing Wednesday, Mulgrew called for all 1.1 million students and school staffs to get tests for Covid-19 or an antibody test within 10 days of the schools’ Sept. 10 opening date. Daily new cases of coronavirus in Spain jumped to highest since late April, with 3,715, according to data for Health Ministry published Wednesday. The Madrid region recorded the biggest surge, with 1,535 new cases in the past day, according to the data. The ministry said 131 deaths were recorded in past seven days. Florida reported 584,047 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, up 0.7% from a day earlier, compared with an average increase of 1% in the previous seven days. The new daily rate of people testing positive for the first time fell to 7.1% for Tuesday, the lowest since June 14. The state has reported 33,146 new cases in the past seven days, the fewest in a comparable period since late June. Deaths among Florida residents reached 9,932, an increase of 174, or 1.8%, according to the health department report, which includes data through Tuesday. Although cases and hospitalizations have been slowing in Florida, the state continues to report more than 1,000 new Covid-19 deaths a week. Deaths often trail infections by weeks, and generally take even longer to be reflected in the data. New York City’s positive test rate for the Covid-19 has fallen to its lowest since the pandemic crisis first hit, Mayor Bill de Blasio said. After more than two months of experiencing positive test rates of less than 3%, the city recorded a 0.24% test rate this week, the mayor reported during a news briefing Wednesday. Of 64 patients who were hospitalized with respiratory symptoms, only 8.7% were found to be infected with the Covid-19 virus, the mayor said. “We are one of the safest places in the country when it comes to the coronavirus,” de Blasio said. “The economy is starting to come back, but we have a long way to go.” People will have to wear masks both indoors and outdoors on the island of Mykonos and in the northern region of Chalkidiki, the Greek government said. The authorities also decided to suspend any kind of events and prohibit gatherings of more than nine people in the two tourist areas. The measures come after Greece reported 269 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, a record since the beginning of the pandemic. The United Arab Emirates is seeing a jump in new cases and the government blamed the increase on social gatherings and the failure to adhere to precautionary measures. The country reported 435 new infections on Wednesday, the highest daily increase in over a month. The Gulf nation has increased testing, eased restrictions and airlines such as Emirates and Etihad have started to connect with more destinations. Dubai started allowing tourists back in early July. — With assistance by Kara Wetzel