The coronavirus outbreaks in Florida and California showed signs of easing. Two more large U.S. universities shifted to online learning to prevent the virus’s spread on campuses. The World Health Organization warned against vaccine nationalism. Australia signed a letter of intent to receive the University of Oxford’s vaccine should it prove successful, with plans to make it free to citizens. South Korea banned large gatherings in and around Seoul. Finland’s prime minister is being tested for the coronavirus, while Germany’s chancellor ruled out any further easing of restrictions after a recent surge in cases. Ireland’s prime minister outlined a slate of new measures to curb the spread. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The University of Notre Dame will suspend in-person classes and shift to remote learning for the next two weeks because of a “steady increase” in virus positivity rates since students returned earlier this month. The Indiana school, with almost 12,000 students, said 147 people have tested positive since Aug. 3. Many were seniors who lived off campus and spread the virus at gatherings, according to the university’s website. Separately, Michigan State University told most students to stay home and learn remotely, a week before move-in was set to begin. “Given the current status of the virus in our country -- particularly what we are seeing at other institutions as they re-populate their campus communities -- it has become evident to me that, despite our best efforts and strong planning, it is unlikely we can prevent widespread transmission of Covid-19 between students if our undergraduates return to campus,” President Samuel L. Stanley said in a letter. The moves comes a day after the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, one of the biggest colleges to attempt in-person learning, said it would shift to online classes because of a spike in cases. Texas’s new-case count climbed by 7,282 on Tuesday to 550,232, according to state health department data. The increase was almost triple the day-earlier addition, though Monday tallies tend to be the smallest of the week because of a falloff in weekend testing. There were 216 new fatalities, bringing the cumulative total to 10,250. The positive-test rate dropped for the fifth time in six days, reaching an eight-week low of 11.18%. Controversy has swirled around the positivity rate for the past week after the figure surged above 24%, prompting criticism of the state’s methodology. Governor Greg Abbott ordered an investigation last week into why the rate appeared so high. A health department spokeswoman said preliminary inquiries showed coding errors and a software upgrade contributed to “inconsistencies.” Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.8% as compared with the same time Monday to 5.46 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was lower than the average daily gain of 0.9% over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.5% to 171,120. Anthony Fauci, the top U.S. infectious disease specialist, said he’s preparing for extended talks with Scott Atlas, President Donald Trump’s newest pandemic adviser who’s been pushing for schools to reopen. Atlas, a Stanford University neuroradiologist who’s now a fellow at the school’s conservative Hoover Institution, was named by Trump last week. He’s been a critic of lockdowns and has said that children risk little from exposure to the virus. Amsterdam increased supervision of bars and restaurants to make sure they adhere to Covid-19 guidelines as the number of new cases is on the rise, said Mayor Femke Halsema. Bars and restaurants can face fines and a forced closing of up to four weeks. If new infections continue to rise, the Dutch capital will also consider an early closing time for bars and restaurants, a mandatory face mask across the city and a prohibition on gatherings of more than 30 people, she said. California reported 4,636 new confirmed cases, below the 14-day average of 8,089, according to state data. The most-populous state had 100 additional deaths, less than the 14-day average of 132, bringing its total to 11,342. The rate of positive tests over the past 14 days was unchanged at 6.5%. Hospitalizations rose for the first time in more than two weeks, climbing 1.7% to 5,061 patients. They’ve fallen almost 30% from a peak in July. Irish Prime Minister Micheal Martin outlined a slate of new measures to curb the spread of the virus. Speaking to reporters in Dublin, he said gatherings in homes, both indoors and outdoors, should be limited to six people. Where possible, people should work from home for another month, and public transport should be avoided, he said. All sports events should be played behind closed doors, he said, scrapping a previous limit of 200 spectators. Police will be given powers to enforce rules in bars after what Martin described as “appalling” scenes in some pubs. Australia has signed a letter of intent with AstraZeneca Plc to receive the University of Oxford’s coronavirus vaccine should it prove successful, with Prime Minister Scott Morrison vowing to distribute it free to all Australians. A final agreement will detail distribution, timing and the price of the vaccine, with hopes the university’s project may be able to deliver the first product by as soon as the end of this year. It would be manufactured in Australia. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo is writing a book out about his experience leading the state through the coronavirus pandemic. “American Crisis” is set to be released on Oct. 13 and chronicles the state’s actions starting in March as New York quickly became the epicenter of the outbreak in the U.S. Cuomo in the book discusses the daily press briefings that put him in the national spotlight and earned him the title of “America’s Governor,” and comments on the federal government’s response to the crisis, according to a news release. The book comes as Cuomo’s handling of nursing homes during the pandemic falls under intense scrutiny. About 6,500 nursing home residents in New York have died as a result of the virus. Lawmakers holding hearings over the past few weeks have pushed the state to release data, which some say will reveal an even higher number of deaths at the facilities. Florida reported 579,932 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, up 1% from a day earlier, in line with the average increase in the previous seven days. The seven-day rolling total of new cases was 37,140, the fewest by that measure since the June 26 report. The new daily rate of people testing positive for the first time fell to 7.9% for Monday, from 8.2% on Sunday. It was the third reading under 8% in four days. Deaths among Florida residents reached 9,758, an increase of 219, or 2.3%, according to the health department report, which includes data through Monday. Although cases and hospitalizations have been slowing in Florida, the numbers shed light on the toll of Covid-19. Deaths often trail infections by weeks, and generally take even longer to be reflected in the data. New York City will require travelers from states with high virus transmission rates to observe quarantine regulations and provide contact information before getting a hotel room or short-term rental, Mayor Bill de Blasio said. The mayor signed an executive order Tuesday requiring hotels and short-term rental companies to obtain quarantine forms with contact information when guests arrive from restricted states, before giving them a room. Violation of the order would constitute a misdemeanor criminal offense punishable by a fine, de Blasio said. Chancellor Angela Merkel ruled out any further loosening of virus measures in Germany, saying that a doubling in the number of daily cases in the last three weeks must be contained. Europe’s largest economy recorded the highest number of new infections in nearly four months on Tuesday, fueling fears about a resurgence across the continent. Countries must avoid vaccine nationalism after earlier bouts over supplies exacerbated the pandemic, according to WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “As new diagnostics, medicines and vaccines come through the pipeline, it’s critical that countries don’t repeat the same mistakes,” he said at a briefing. WATCH: World Health Organization Health Emergencies Program Executive Director Mike Ryan says herd immunity “is not a solution we should be looking to” as he discusses global Covid-19 transmission. Source: Bloomberg) WHO officials urged member states to join its Covax facility, which aims to accelerate vaccine development and to guarantee fair and equitable access. — With assistance by Kara Wetzel