We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. New infections in Florida slowed to the lowest level since mid-June, a sign the outbreak is easing after a summer spike. Arizona, another U.S. Sun Belt state coping with a surge in infections, reported no deaths for the second time in a week. Scientists in Hong Kong confirmed the first case of coronavirus reinfection. Moderna Inc. said it’s near a deal to supply at least 80 million vaccine doses to the European Union, as the spread of cases accelerates across Europe. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the largest city, Auckland, will stay in lockdown four days longer than planned. U.S. President Donald Trump said a treatment based on blood plasma donated by people who’ve recovered from Covid-19 will be expanded, even before researchers fully understand how well it works. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Spain’s coronavirus infections fell on Monday after cases spiked in recent weeks in regions including Madrid and Catalonia. The country recorded 2,060 infections in the past 24 hours, down from 3,349 on Friday, according to Health Ministry data published on Monday. New cases rose to a near four-month high last week. The ministry doesn’t disclose virus data over the weekend and the number of infections recorded on Mondays tends to be lower than on most other days. SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. is reopening its San Diego theme park on a limited basis starting Aug. 28, a key milestone in the company’s efforts to recover from Covid-19 shutdowns. Guests will be able to see shows featuring killer whales, dolphins and sea lions while chowing down on brisket sliders and craft beers. The infection rate in New York state as of Sunday was 0.66%, the lowest since the start of the pandemic, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said Monday. Of the more than 62,000 tests conducted, 408 were positive as of Aug. 23, he said. The number of hospitalizations was 482, and there were seven virus-related deaths. State officials are monitoring an increase in positive Covid-19 cases in Western New York. Cuomo said there have been clusters at a steel plant in Erie County, a food-processing factory in Chautauqua County, and two nursing homes in that region. The five-day average of new daily cases is up to 63 from 34 a week ago in the Buffalo region, Cuomo said. Arizona on Monday reported no new Covid-19 deaths for the second time in a week. New cases rose by 311 to 198,414, a 0.2% increase compared with the 0.3% average of the prior seven days. The death toll remained at 4,771. The Netherlands has raised its travel advisory level for all of Spain, including the Canary Islands, to orange, triggering a 10-day quarantine for visitors returning from the region. The warning will be implemented midnight local time and also applies to Monaco, the Sarthe and Herault en Alpes Maritimes regions in France, and the Scottish city of Aberdeen. The travel advisories for Paris and the Bouches-du-Rhone region around Marseille in the south of France were already raised to orange just over a week ago. Florida reported 602,829 Covid-19 cases on Monday, up 0.4% from a day earlier, compared with an average increase of 0.7% in the previous seven days. The daily increase of 2,258 was the least since June 15. Case numbers are typically lower in the early part of the week due to reduced lab hours on weekends, but the seven-day rolling case total fell to the lowest since June 24, according to the health department report, which includes data through Sunday. The new daily rate of people testing positive for the first time fell to 5.2% for Sunday, down from 5.7% a day earlier. The 5% reading for Friday was also the lowest since mid-June.Deaths among Florida residents reached 10,397, an increase of 72, or 0.7%, and the seven-day rolling total was under 1,000 for the third straight day. Deaths often trail infections by weeks, and generally take even longer to be reflected in the data. Authorities in Zurich, Switzerland’s most populous canton, or state, announced new limits on large gatherings in response to an uptick in Covid-19 infections. Events such as theater performances, concerns, church services and private parties will be limited to 100 participants unless masks are worn. As of Thursday, people in shops will also be required to wear masks. Duke University will begin its fall sports season without spectators at home events, the school announced Monday. Contests played on Duke’s campus in Durham, North Carolina, will only include essential game management and broadcast media, Duke said in a statement. Moderna Inc. said it plans to provide 80 million doses of its experimental coronavirus shot to the EU. The U.S. biotech company has finished talks with the European Commission over a potential agreement, which includes an option for EU member states to purchase an additional 80 million doses, according to a statement Monday. A man was infected with the coronavirus after recovering from an initial bout in April in what scientists said was the first case showing that re-infection may occur within a few months. The 33-year-old’s second SARS-CoV-2 infection was detected via airport screening on his return to Hong Kong from Europe this month. Researchers at the University of Hong Kong used genomic sequence analysis to prove that he had been infected by two different strains. The information technology worker didn’t develop any symptoms from his second infection, which might indicate any “subsequent infections may be milder,” the researchers said. A lack of collaboration in developing a vaccine to fight the coronavirus could lead to price spikes, the head of the World Health Organization said at a press briefing in Geneva. “Vaccine nationalism” is a risk that could lead to unfair pricing of an approved vaccine, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters. He urged countries to join the Covax facility, a WHO-sponsored platform for developing a vaccine to combat the disease. The WHO is in talks with Russia about its own vaccine development efforts, and the upcoming Phase 3 trials “will really be the test” of its potential effectiveness, Soumya Swaminathan, the WHO’s chief scientist, said at the briefing. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus The number of positive cases in New York state as of yesterday was 0.66%, the lowest since the start of the pandemic, Governor Andrew Cuomo said Monday. Of the more than 62,000 tests conducted, 408 were positive as of Aug. 23, he said. The number of hospitalizations was 482, and there were seven virus-related deaths. State officials are monitoring an increase in positive Covid-19 cases in Western New York. Cuomo said there have been clusters at a steel plant in Erie County, a food processing factory in Chautauqua County, and two nursing homes in that region. The five-day average of new daily cases is up 63 from 34 a week ago in Western New York, Cuomo said. The government will allow overseas students, including those from China, to apply to enter Taiwan for school, according to a statement from the Ministry of Education. Students will be able to submit applications from Monday, and about 10,000 will be allowed to apply for entry. Japan’s biggest lender is planning to raise funds from individual investors to help smaller companies and hospitals tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. intends to issue sustainability bonds totaling as much as 150 billion yen ($1.42 billion) in September, after receiving requests from retail buyers following a sale of such notes to institutional investors in June, according to Isamu Murofushi, a bank spokesman. Hong Kong reported seven local coronavirus cases, of which four are of unknown origin, Department of Health official Chuang Shuk-kwan said at a briefing. It was the first time the city reported single-digit daily cases since the latest wave began in early July. The city also found two imported cases, bringing the total number of cases to 4,691. Israel’s Immigration and Absorption Minister Pnina Tamano, a member of the Blue and White political party, tested positive for coronavirus, a parliamentary spokesman said Sunday. Justice Minister Avi Nissenkorn, Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz, and Tourism Minister Asaf Zamir will enter quarantine following a tracing study, the spokesman said. Infections in France are approaching the threshold at which Switzerland would demand visitors from there to quarantine for 10 days, the Tribune de Geneve reported Monday. France is nearing the 60 cases per 100,000 people mark, the paper reported, which means that a mandatory quarantine “is a possibility,” a Swiss official was quoted as saying. Switzerland’s current list of countries from which travelers must quarantine include Belgium, Spain and the U.S. The restrictions would particularly affect the more than 100,000 workers who live in France and cross the border into Switzerland each day. The Indonesian island of Bali will remain closed to foreign visitors for the rest of 2020 after authorities postponed a plan to welcome back international tourists from Sept. 11 as the coronavirus continues to spread. “The Indonesian government couldn’t reopen its doors to foreign travelers until the end of 2020 as we remain a red zone,” Bali Governor Wayan Koster said in a statement. “The situation is not conducive to allowing foreign tourists to come to Indonesia, including to Bali.” Tokyo reported 95 additional coronavirus cases, the lowest daily number since July 8, in the latest sign that the Japanese capital’s outbreak is easing. While Tokyo’s infection count is typically low on Mondays, the latest numbers continue a downward trend. They also follow comments last week from the government’s virus advisory panel that Japan’s current coronavirus wave has more or less reached its nationwide peak. Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visited a hospital for the 2nd time in about a week as concerns over his health mount. business: https://bloom.bg/3gpJPXS #安倍 (Source: QuickTake) South Korea has no choice but to raise social distancing measures to the highest level if the coronavirus spread isn’t contained with current restrictions, President Moon Jae-in said in a meeting with his secretaries, according to the presidential website. Moon said level-3 distancing isn’t an easy option, as the nation will face stoppage to daily lives, job losses and a shock to the economy. Level 3 prohibits meetings and events of 10 people or more, suspends in-person school classes and advises companies to have employees work from home. South Korea added 266 coronavirus cases in 24 hours, down from 397 a day earlier. The Philippines is negotiating with 16 manufacturers of potential Covid-19 vaccines to procure supplies needed to battle Southeast Asia’s largest outbreak. The country will join human trials of 14 vaccines under the World Health Organization’s Solidarity Trial and the global Covax facility to get priority access if they’re proven effective, Health Undersecretary Maria Rosario Vergeire told ABS-CBN News Channel. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the largest city Auckland will stay in lockdown four days longer than initially planned to ensure a community outbreak of Covid-19 is under control. Auckland will exit lockdown at midnight on Aug. 30 rather than on Aug. 26, Ardern told reporters in Wellington. Watch: New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern says Auckland will stay in lockdown four days longer than initially planned. Source: New Zealand Government/Bloomberg) Mexico reported 3,948 new confirmed cases, bringing the total to 560,164, according to data released by the Health Ministry Sunday night. Deaths rose 226 to 60,480. Mexico trails just the U.S. and Brazil in total deaths and has the world’s seventh-highest number of cases. The country is struggling to contain the outbreak, which has brought the economy crashing and continues to spread despite government efforts to clamp down. In a webcast Friday, the World Health Organization said Mexico’s testing rate means the pandemic is “clearly under-recognized” in the Latin American nation. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency plans to issue an emergency exemption to Texas that will allow American Airlines to use a new surface coating that kills coronaviruses for as long as seven days, Reuters reported, citing unidentified officials familiar with a planned EPA announcement on Monday. Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro defended the reopening of retail outlets “with responsibility” and said his government had done everything possible to curb the spread of Covid-19, in a video posted on social media Sunday. Brazilian soldiers disinfect the balcony around the Christ The Redeemer statue in Rio de Janeiro on Aug. 15. Photographer: Mauro Pimentel/AFP via Getty Images Some authorities have destroyed jobs in Brazil, Bolsonaro said, referring to state governors who advocate maintaining social distancing. Bolsonaro spoke on a day in which Brazil reached 114,744 deaths from the coronavirus, including 494 in the last 24 hours. — With assistance by Mark Schoifet, Jeff Sutherland, Alisa Odenheimer, Hugo Miller, Joost Akkermans, Catherine Bosley, Jonathan Levin, Wout Vergauwen, Flynn McRoberts, and Keshia Clukey