Protesters on Saturday at the intersection where police grabbed Matthew Cartier and pulled him into an unmarked van. Photographer: Emmai Alaquiva, https://www.emmaialaquiva.com/ Photographer: Emmai Alaquiva, https://www.emmaialaquiva.com/ After news of federal agents pulling protesters off the streets into unmarked vehicles in Portland went national, Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto said, like many   other city leaders, that he would not condone that happening in his city. Perhaps he was only referencing the presence of federal agents and not the tactics themselves, because now police officers in Pittsburgh have been caught on camera using very similar “snatch-and-grab” tactics during a protest. On Saturday, Matthew Cartier, a protest “marshal” was snatched off the streets into a white van while directing traffic during a march against police violence. He was steering protesters through the streets for a weekly protest event called “Civil Saturdays,” led by youth organization Black Young & Educated. According to Cartier’s Twitter account, that’s when he was lured by men into an unmarked van by passengers who said they were looking for directions. The passengers were not wearing police uniforms and were “heavily armed,” Cartier said. The incident was filmed and  shared widely on social media. Pittsburgh police claim Cartier was blocking traffic and that organizers of the march did not communicate with them about their route. The organizers from the youth group have disputed this and held a press conference Monday to defend Cartier and call out the contentious police tactics. Neither Peduto nor the police department responded to CityLab requests for comment. A group of protesters also assembled on Sunday in front of Mayor Peduto’s house to criticize his handling of the situation. Peduto held a press conference Sunday where he denounced the police tactics, and released a statement Monday saying that he was “livid” with what he saw in videos. “It’s like, why are we having plainclothes officers in an unmarked vehicle arresting somebody through a pop-out tactic?” he said, according to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. “I will never tolerate these tactics being used at peaceful protests again,” he added though without ruling out the police using these tactics for other purposes. Police Chief Scott Schubert acknowledged at Sunday’s press conference that the optics of Saturday’s incident unfavorably mirrored the heavily scrutinized actions of federal agents seen weeks ago in Portland. Schubert referred to the stealth apprehension of Cartier as a “low-visibility arrest” performed with the intention of not drawing a lot of attention. Instead, it gained the attention of thousands on social media, including several  city council  members and  state legislators, some of whom used much stronger language to describe what happened.  This is a kidnapping. Protestors have been met by escalating violence and harassment with no condemnation from city leadership.  This can't be tolerated @billpeduto https://t.co/ADwd867lOW “Instead of abducting him, the police could have had a dialogue with the peaceful protest leader on the intent of the protesters, and either worked to ensure their safety from vehicles and the passage of emergency vehicles ... or asked them to move from the right-of-way,” said Allegheny County Controller Chelsa Wagner in a press statement. “I have yet to hear any plausible rationale for an arrest, especially in the manner it appears to have occurred, which should be chilling to all those who believe in an accountable law enforcement system.” Meanwhile advocates for the protesters have not been convinced that the police chief and mayor are taking the incident seriously. The brief statements and off-mic chatter from Peduto captured by the Abolitionist Law Center after his press conference, haven’t helped his case.  Everyone: Stop letting your police terrorize, harass, and kidnap protesters.Billpeduto: I see you. I hear you. "Okey-doke, gonna get some food." pic.twitter.com/wXZsYmiwf0 The Abolitionist Law Center, a public interest law firm focused on mass incarceration, has been monitoring and documenting questionable police tactics employed against protesters since large-scale demonstrations broke out in June, in response to the Minneapolis police killing of George Floyd. After news of the federal agents in Portland went viral, the ALC pointed out that Pittsburgh police had been  employing similar clandestine tactics, particularly the department’s Special Response Team, which is used for protests. ALC shared a Pittsburgh Police document on its website that details how the SRT is expected to conduct itself during demonstrations, including a redacted section that exempts its members from policies mandating that officers display their names on their uniforms and give their name and badge number when asked. “To be there anonymously without any requirement to let the public see who they are and see who is attacking them — who is behind the shields and the guns and the masks, really makes it difficult to hold those people accountable,” said Quinn Cozzens, an attorney with the Abolitionist Law Center. “It doesn’t even allow public officials, if they were to seek to hold [police] accountable for any of the abuses that they may have committed, to try to identify those people.” When video of Cartier’s arrest began circulating on Saturday, Peduto tweeted that “the right to shut down public streets is a privilege” and suggested that the protesters  violated “codes” he created with the help of the American Civil Liberties Union to help sanction that privilege. But the ACLU is not condoning the police department’s actions. “Mayor Peduto is correct that the ACLU of Pennsylvania consulted with the city in drafting guidelines for how to handle protests, specifically unpermitted protests that block roadways,” said Witold Walczak, legal director of the ACLU of Pennsylvania in a press statement. “However, based on eyewitness accounts, the arresting officers were in clear violation of their own guidelines. The ACLU of Pennsylvania has never suggested that the snatch-and-stash arrest of a peaceful demonstrator is ever acceptable.”  Just a quick reminder: Abducting protesters off the street, as officers did yesterday in your city, isn't just flat-out wrong — it's a violation of your own policies.We need answers. https://t.co/k21bMpOqDF Days before the incident, Peduto shared a new plan for police reform from the U.S. Conference of Mayors, of which he’s a member. “Departments should have policies to minimize the use of provocative and unnecessarily aggressive tactics and equipment, such as riot gear and armored vehicles,” reads the section of the plan that addresses how police should handle protests. “During protests, departments should avoid making arrests for low-level civil disobedience, such as blocking traffic, opting instead to issue citations.” Cartier was arrested and charged with failure to disperse, disorderly conduct and obstruction of highways or other public passages, which Allegheny County District Attorney Stephen Zappala said should have been handled as summary offenses. Several experts interviewed by the local news outlet Public Source said that the plainclothes-policing approach is legal even at a protest. In other contexts, as with anti-drug task forces, such tactics of plainclothes officers jumping out of unmarked vans have been common across a number of cities for years. The fact it was used during a peaceful protest in this Pittsburgh case makes it much more unusual, though related past examples do exist. In Memphis, the city has for decades been under a consent decree to limit police surveillance operations during protests after its police department was  caught sending undercover agents to meetings and protests during the  1960s civil rights movements. It has been trying to get out of that decree even though a judge recently found the city  guilty of again  deploying secret, plainclothed agents to protests against police violence and Confederate monuments in recent years. “The idea that using an unmarked van filled with unmarked police officers, wielding assault rifles, jumping out to grab somebody who’s engaged in assisting a peaceful protest is being done for anyone’s safety is absolutely laughable and preposterous and should not be accepted by anybody who — well, it should not be accepted by anybody,” said Cozzens of the Abolitionist Law Center. “This is a counterinsurgency tactic that serves the purpose of intimidating people who are exercising their First Amendment rights, and raising their voices against exactly these kinds of tactics, which, while more visible in this context occurs on a daily basis in Black communities and poor communities.”