For months, educators, policymakers, health experts and weary parents have debated how to return children to school, and how to do it safely. They’re now about to see how those plans play out in real life. Many schools have reopened or are preparing to open with measures like masks and social distancing mandates, contact tracing, and daily temperature checks and health screenings. Some are relying on staggered schedules and arranging schools in smaller cohorts. Others already had to  shut down after clusters of cases materialized within weeks of reopening. In the U.S., where there is no national reopening plan, schools are navigating a patchwork of models that differ from district to district. Some are starting the year completely remote, while others will fully reopen with in-person lessons. Still others plan on implementing a hybrid model, which splits students’ weeks between physical and virtual classes. These methods are being tested against the backdrop of limited data over the infection severity and transmission rate of Covid-19 among kids, and from children to adults. So far, evidence suggests that younger children are less likely to get severely ill, but they’re not immune. More than 97,000 children in the U.S. tested positive in the last two weeks of July, marking a jump in cases among youth, according to a recent report from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Children’s Hospital Association that compiled data from 49 states. A review of studies by the Kaiser Family Foundation found variation on the question of how likely children are to spread the virus: Some suggest children carry and shed the same virus load as adults, while others found they are less likely to spread it around. One study out of South Korea puts the risk on a gradient, with children under 10 less likely than their older peers to transmit the disease to others. Bloomberg CityLab explored various back-to-school models and their trade-offs when it comes to coronavirus risk, overall well-being, child development and accessibility to all students. The Logistics: As cases continue to climb, more schools in the U.S. will start the fall semester strictly online, including at least 21 of the country’s 25 largest school districts, according to Education Week’s reopening tracker. Not everyone has laid out a detailed plan, and without guidance from the national level, virtual learning and the timeline for resuming in-person classes will vary across school districts. They’ll differ on details like the type of platform teachers and students will communicate on, how often teachers will offer live instructions (versus pre-recorded sessions), how classes will be broken up, and whether there are requirements for creating engaging instruction (as opposed to having students watch videos). Some schools will hold morning meetings; others might reserve blocks during the day for emotional wellness check-ins or even offer therapy assistance. Benefits: By keeping students in their own homes, and separate from teachers, it’s the least risky option in terms of exposing students and staff to Covid-19. The model has drawn support from parents and teachers who fear that returning to in-person learning too soon and without adequate safety protocols will endanger lives and lead to outbreaks in the community. Nearly one-third of K-12 public and private teachers in the U.S. are 50 or older, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, meaning they are at higher risk of getting severely ill from Covid-19. Distance learning also gives students flexibility, as some lessons can be pre-recorded and accessed on their own time. Caveats: The burden falls largely on teachers to create engaging and interactive lessons. In many U.S. states like California, teachers’ unions and school officials do not agree on what kind of online instruction educators should be required to provide. The reality is that students will likely struggle to sit through each online lesson for up to an hour at a time, says Nathaniel Beers, a pediatrician at the Children’s National Hospital in Washington, D.C. Younger kids will need to rely on adults to stay focused, which leaves parents struggling to balance full-time jobs with around-the-clock child care. An all-virtual model also means students could miss out on vital non-academic resources like free and reduced lunch, behavioral health programs, and other health care services that they normally rely on, says Beers. Kids who are at risk for child abuse may also be worse off (although some low-income parents of color say they feel safer from false allegations). Then there’s the question of whether all students have the same access to virtual learning. Initial experiences with the model at the start of the pandemic highlighted America’s deep digital divide, what’s known as the “ homework gap,” with some school districts canceling the remainder of the year because so many of their students lacked internet or computer access. States are hoping to see better outcomes this time around, and local governments have been scrambling to secure devices for students and open up Wi-Fi hotspots in parks and parking lots. In Philadelphia, where the school district closed this spring because the majority of its 200,000 students come from low-income families, the city recently launched a digital equity committee that will work with telecom companies on giving internet access to underserved families. “The educational gaps are accumulative, and growing,” says Christina Ramirez, a professor of biostatistics at UCLA’s School of Public Health. “We're going to create thousands of economic disparities between kids whose parents can afford to hire tutors that allow them to get ahead, and kids from lower income families.” Her review of Covid-19 data as it relates to students suggests that sustained school closures could, for example, lead to higher drop-out rates. Because of the shutdowns at the end of the 2019-2020 school year, U.S. students will return this fall with only 70% of the learning gains in reading — and 50% in math — that they would have made in a typical school year, according to an April report by the education nonprofit NWEA in Oregon. Students in lower grades and those from families who may not have the same flexibility or resources as their peers are  likely returning with even fewer gains. Without national aid, the gap will persist. “We are now seeing in a very direct way, the majority of public schools will have to go virtual, and we have yet to address the equity question in a deliberate manner,” says Nicol Turner-Lee, director of the Center for Technology Innovation at the Brookings Institution. In a recent report for Brookings, she stressed that the latest stimulus bill must include funding for broadband access for all communities, including low-income families in urban neighborhoods and those in rural areas. For years, she says, federal resources have been directed at improving internet access in classrooms, but not at “maintaining the continuity of learning for students when they go home.” The Logistics: When schools across the world began reopening in late May — as coronavirus cases subsided in countries from Australia to Germany — many fully opened and at full capacity. In the U.S., at least two states, Arkansas and Florida, have ordered schools to resume in-person learning all five days of the week, while some others are giving districts the option to decide. The emphasis then is placed on creating a safe physical environment for students and teachers.  In Singapore, masks are required, and some schools have dedicated walking lanes to minimize contact between different cohorts. Before South Korea closed schools in Seoul amid a recent surge in cases, classrooms were advised to keep a third of their windows open whenever the air conditioners were on. Italy is set to buy 3 million new desks to replace its traditional two-person tables. Guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) also advises  that desks be rearranged three to six feet apart, that physical barriers are used to separate reception areas and faculty workspaces, and that students are put into small cohorts that interact with each other and with only one teacher in the same classroom for the entire day. Drop-offs, pickups and lunch times should be staggered to minimize crowds, and kids should be screened daily for potential infection, either by the school or at home. Beers stresses that close coordination with the public health system is crucial. “The local or state health departments should be helping schools navigate questions relative to physical distancing, face coverings and cleaning,” he says. They should also assist with contact tracing if positive coronavirus cases are found. “Those are components that shouldn't be left to schools to come up with.” Benefits: From a strictly pedagogical standpoint, this is the least disruptive option, especially for younger children learning basic skills at school. In June, the AAP said in a statement that districts should strive toward making in-person learning safe again, and that the benefits of a physical classroom go beyond academics: “They also learn social and emotional skills at school, get healthy meals and exercise, mental health support and other services that cannot be easily replicated online.” “Children generally thrive on routine,” adds Beers, who also serves on the Council of School Health for the AAP. That sense of routine, and physical connection, may be especially crucial as isolation can exacerbate the trauma some kids may already be experiencing because of the abrupt school closings and statewide pandemic shutdowns. Caveats: Having the right protocols in place and ensuring kids are social distancing will be challenging, if not impossible, in a school operating at full capacity. Just the task of spacing out desks is easier said than done as teachers learn quickly that there simply isn’t enough room. It can also be costly. By one estimate, each school district may have to spend $1.8 million to reopen, at a time when funding is already limited and as cities face looming budget cuts. That includes roughly $300,000 to provide disinfecting supplies and personal protective equipment, and more than $1.2 million to hire more custodial staff, nurses and aides, according to the Association of School Business Officials International. The American Federation of Teachers, meanwhile, estimates that safely reopening schools will require a federal investment of  $116.5 billion on top of funding districts already have available. Local municipalities, which already spend  $22 billion to bus students to and from school, will have to spend even more as buses are expected to limit their capacity to allow for social distancing. “Every place will be different,” said Steve Simmons, president of the National Association for Pupil Transportation. “If you have a district with 1,000 kids, you can probably handle it. But if you have a larger district, that job’s going to be next to impossible.” For parents concerned about Covid-19 transmission on school buses or on public transit, the burden could fall on the families themselves, which will be difficult for those without cars. Javaid Siddiqi, head of the education policy group The Hunt Institute, raises concern that staff and students will let their guards down as the school year progresses. “Human nature kicks in, complacency kicks in, and we're already seeing that now,” he says. “I am confident that if we get six weeks into the school year without positive [Covid] results, you will see students start pushing the envelope and teachers will start not holding them accountable.” If there is an outbreak, it could affect certain students more than others. Already, a new study in the journal Pediatrics from the Children’s National Hospital suggests that Covid-19 has hit minority kids and those from low-income families the hardest. The data shows that of 1,000 children tested at the D.C. hospital, roughly 46% of Hispanic and 30% of Black children tested positive, compared with only 7% of White children. Schools that have already resumed provide a cautionary tale. In Israel, schools reopened in May as the country was recording one of the lowest rates of Covid cases across the globe, with new daily cases in the double digits and fewer than 300 related deaths. Two weeks later, clusters of new cases among students and staff — including 130 cases in one school alone — forced dozens of facilities to shut down indefinitely and put more than 6,800 people in quarantine. In the U.S, meanwhile, one school district in Georgia, where masks are not mandated, ordered 925 students and staff to quarantine roughly a week after reopening — officials identified 59 positive Covid-19 cases. In nearby Dallas city, the high school behind the now-infamous photo of a crowded hallway of unmasked students had to close for two days of disinfecting after nine students and staff tested positive. Beers also stresses that it’s not only students who need extra support, but also teachers who are essentially risking their lives for a job that traditionally is underpaid in the U.S., and with little support from leaders. Some teachers are choosing to retire over Covid-19 concerns, compounding an already growing teacher shortage in the U.S. The Logistics: For many school districts in the U.S., the hybrid model is a compromise between the two — mixing in two or three days of in-person classes with remote learning. School districts are experimenting with different ways to implement the model, according to a detailed breakdown from Education Week. Some are splitting students into groups that attend in-person classes on alternating days, with one day reserved for teacher planning and disinfecting; others are splitting the student body into morning and afternoon groups. Still others are considering only having elementary school kids attend physical classes, while middle and high-schoolers remain fully remote, so the younger students can spread out among several school buildings. In more complex variations, some school districts are considering only having kids come in for core classes like math and English, and others are giving parents the flexibility of choosing if and when they want their children to go into school and for what courses. If space remains an issue, the abundance of unused private and public buildings can also be turned into classrooms, Turner-Lee  suggests. “We need to reimagine the community at school,” she says. “Right now, we have a lot of vacant buildings because of economic decline. It's not unusual to see unused land space, offices, or former retail establishments that can be repurposed for classrooms to ensure that they allow for learning.” Benefits: The mixed approaches will give students at least some of the face-to-face interaction experts agree is beneficial, even necessary, for educational development and mental well-being. It will also give low-income students the ability to access critical services that they might not be able to receive in a strictly virtual setting. And by staggering schedules, and limiting the number of students in the school building at a time, it allows schools to better prevent crowding and enforce social distancing measures like spacing desks six feet apart. “The hybrid model is striving to do exactly what the AAP suggests should happen, which is that we get as many children as possible in school for in-person learning as often as possible — as long as it's safe,” says Beers. Caveats: While some might argue that the hybrid model combines the benefits of fully reopening schools and of distance learning, it also includes some of the same risks. Schools would still have to invest in social distancing protocols, and the possibility of vigilance easing throughout the school year remains a challenge to keeping schools safe on days when students have to be in class. Meanwhile, inequality casts a cloud over this model, too. Cities and the national government would still need to invest in closing, or at least narrowing the homework gap, so students can access online lessons on the virtual-learning days. Otherwise, it still risks leaving underserved students behind. Also, being able to choose what’s best for their children, and finding additional resources like tutors, learning pods, or microschools are luxuries that most parents can’t afford. The model may also be a logistical nightmare schools are creating for both parents and themselves. Coordinating bus routes according to who goes to school on what days may be particularly challenging for administrators, while the lack of a solution to the child care crisis means many parents will struggle to make their work schedules align with their children’s more complex itineraries. “This idea of planning for the worst is missing in all this, which would be everyone coming with requests for very unique schedules. Can we really deliver on that?” says Siddiqi at The Hunt Institute. “If you ask for input and you can't honor every unique request, you set yourself up for failure.” it’s also important to note that the hybrid model still risks spreading Covid from within the school building to the larger community. In fact, some epidemiologists say it may carry the most risk, in part by enabling students to interact more with different groups of people. As Wired explains it, students aren’t necessarily inclined to stay home on days with no in-person classes, and can mingle with other people on their days off. Young children whose parents can’t alter their work schedule to fit the school’s might end up being taken care of by other adults. Both scenarios increase the coronavirus risk posed to teachers, who may have to interact with multiple cohorts of kids. The Logistics: As administrators acknowledge the challenges of reopening schools, whether virtually or in-person, some have been looking at ways to offset some of the limitations. One idea that mirrors what schools have done in past epidemics — and that is recommended by the World Health Organization — is moving classrooms outdoors or into vacant buildings. In New York City, the idea has gained support from at least one council member, who called on local agencies to establish a citywide program to help schools secure permits for setting up tables and chairs to hold classes in parks and safely bring classrooms into the streets in the same way cities have done for restaurants. Turner-Lee says buses, parks and any green space around community buildings like churches can also be used to set up Wi-Fi hotspots for families without internet in cities and particularly in rural communities where the broadband infrastructure is lacking.  “I wrote early on about Wi-Fi-enabled school buses in parks in neighborhoods; now I'm taking it to step two,” she says. “Let's put in some benches and tables, so that [students] can social distance and do their homework outside without being on asphalt.” Benefits: Having lessons outdoors not only opens up space for physical distancing and lowers the transmission risk of the virus, it also expands the kind of hands-on activities that teachers can plan for students. Organizations like the Nature Based Education Consortium are providing training and other resources to help teachers plan activities in the natural environment and manage risks. Past research has linked being in nature with better mental health among children, with one study out of Denmark suggesting that kids who had the lowest amount of exposure to green space are up to 55% more likely to develop mental health disorders in adulthood. Caveats: Expanding classes outside will still carry some uncertainties: Transmission risk may be lower but it doesn’t disappear completely. And like with remote learning, teachers will be asked to plan lessons in a format they may not be familiar with. Outdoor classes will also be dependent on the weather. In lower-income neighborhoods, where parks can be hard to come by, finding the right space and enough of it can be a challenge in itself. And even as schools propose erecting tents, ongoing heat waves, extreme cold, the threat of rain and more extreme storms mean educators need to have contingency plans. Meanwhile in dense cities, outdoor classes would mean closing fiercely contested street space and parking lots to traffic and prioritizing them for schools, which may not necessarily get buy-in from local leaders and the community. For most places, going outside is a short-term fix. Experts acknowledge that schools are up against a very complex problem that goes beyond the forces within their control. “The thing that's very frustrating to me as a former school principal and a former school board member is that we're asking educators to make decisions that have huge communal health implications,” says Siddiqi. “It's not just about the students, but the community.” Schools also lack leadership, and cooperation, from the top. “The problem is too big,” adds Turner-Lee, speaking of the digital divide. “Schools, to address it, are going to require some level of federal and philanthropic support, as well as state and local resources to ensure that every child has a tablet versus a text book or that there are Wi-Fi hotspots. And they're not able to do that right now without the type of investment that makes us able to reimagine education.” As for Beers, he says solving the school dilemma starts with tackling the Covid-19 pandemic outside the education system. “Until we are willing to make some of the hard decisions around how we contain the virus in our communities, we will continue to run in circles about whether or not we can safely reopen schools,” he says. “Until we are putting in place appropriate requirements around masks in the communities, until we are acknowledging that we are prioritizing children and child care, we will continue to allow community spread to be the barrier.”  — With assistance by Alex Wittenberg, Joyce Koh, and Kyungji Cho