Apple Inc. will close hundreds of retail stores outside of Greater China until March 27 and is moving to remote work. Several countries announced additional travel restrictions, with European countries one of the main targets. In the U.S., the House passed an economic relief plan backed by President Donald Trump to deal with the virus outbreak. New Zealand, which reported its sixth case Saturday, said every person entering the country, including citizens and residents, will be required to self-isolate for 14 days while Vietnam will suspend tourist visas for travelers who have recently visited European countries. A ban on mass gatherings in the Philippines and a lockdown of Manila come into effect Sunday. China’s President Xi Jinping sent his condolences to other nations for the first time since the global outbreak of the coronavirus, offering them to three countries -- South Korea, Iran and Italy. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus and here for maps and charts. For analysis of the impact from Bloomberg Economics, click here. To see the impact on oil and commodities demand, click here. In a letter posted on Apple’s website, Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said that the “most effective way to minimize risk of the virus’s transmission is to reduce density and maximize social distance,” which led to the decision to temporarily close the stores and allow corporate employees outside of Greater China to work remotely. China’s President Xi Jinping sent his condolences to South Korea, Iran and Italy, the three are among the worst hit outside China by the virus. Eswatini, a small African nation on South Africa’s eastern border, confirmed its first case as did Mauritania, in northwest Africa. The person infected in Mauritania had arrived from Europe on March 9, the Ministry of Health said in a statement. President Hassan Rouhani and Vice President Eshagh Jahangiri do not have the coronavirus and all members of the government are in good health and working, the semi-official Young Journalists Club reported, citing the Minister of Roads and Urban Development Mohammad Eslami. The government also plans to shut the Imam Reza shrine in the holy city of Mashhad, a magnet for millions of Muslim pilgrims every year, during the New Year Holidays from March 20, state television reported. The Philippines will enforce a curfew in Manila for a month from Sunday, ABS-CBN News reported on Saturday, citing the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority. The 8 p.m.-to-5 a.m. curfew will last until April 14, the report cited MMDA chief Jose Arturo Garcia Jr. as saying. Workers and those involved in essential services will be exempt, while violators will be issued with a warning and will not be arrested, it said. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi described the bill as a continuing effort to help the American people. The 363-40 vote early Saturday sends the measure to the Senate, which plans to skip next week’s planned recess to take up the measure. Nancy Pelosi speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill on March 13. Photographer: Sarah Silbiger/Bloomberg Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said travelers coming in from the Pacific Islands will be excluded from restrictions that will be imposed from midnight Sunday. The prime minister spoke Saturday at a press conference in Auckland. Cruise ships will not be allowed into New Zealand until at least June 30. Vietnam said it will suspend tourist visas for travelers who have been in the U.K., Northern Ireland and Schengen countries 14 days prior to their planned arrival starting Sunday. The U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has instructed nursing homes to significantly restrict visitors and limit communal activities, according to a statement from the federal agency. The new measures are to protect senior citizens who are at the highest risk for complications from the virus, the CMS said. Restrictions apply to all visitors except in certain cases of compassionate care as well as to non-essential workers at nursing homes. Trump agreed to host a videoconference on the coronavirus with all of the G-7 leaders early next week. He spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron and discussed how France and the U.S. are working to combat the coronavirus, as well as opportunities to work together to stop the pandemic. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte tested negative for the coronavirus, said Senator Christopher Go, his ally and former aide. Key Philippine economic officials -- including the central bank governor and finance minister -- are in quarantine as infections rise locally. Rodrigo Duterte undergoes testing for COVID-19 at the Malacanang Palace, Manila. Source: Office of Senator Bong Go via AP U.S. cruise operators plan to suspend operations for a month, marking the industry’s most sweeping response yet after a series of outbreaks at sea. Carnival Corp., Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. and MSC Cruises will stop outbound sailings effective midnight, Trump said in a tweet. The companies “are voluntarily and temporarily suspending operations from the U.S. as we work to address this public health crisis,” said Kelly Craighead, president and chief executive officer of the Cruise Lines International Association. “This is an unprecedented situation.” Many hundreds of ships remain at sea, and two well-publicized cases on Carnival’s Princess vessels have left the industry struggling to demonstrate safety. The Diamond Princess was under quarantine in Yokohama, Japan, with more than 700 people testing positive. Ireland is advising people to use “a high degree of caution” before deciding to travel to other EU countries, Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said in a tweet. The move comes “in light of rapidly changing conditions & restrictions across a number of EU countries,” he said. Transit agencies are weighing service cuts as demand declines and employees cope with school closures. New Jersey Transit, a key commuter line to New York City, may pare back schedules after an estimated 20% drop in riders, Governor Phil Murphy said. The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority said it will scale back bus and subway service starting Monday as system employees deal with closed schools in Maryland, Virginia and the the District of Columbia. Trains will run every 12 minutes Monday through Friday, less frequently than the typical five minutes, while buses run on a Saturday schedule. Hungary will close schools nationwide from Monday in a bid to contain the coronavirus, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said. The announcement, by Facebook video, is a reversal for Orban, who earlier in the day rejected demands of teachers to suspend classes immediately. Education should continue with distance-learning tools, he said. Trump, using a federal law, declared a national emergency, opening the door to help local authorities fight the coronavirus with $42 billion in aid and powers to remove red tape. The announcement, made in the Rose Garden, is a symbolic turning point for Trump, who has repeatedly compared the virus to the seasonal flu and insisted that the outbreak is under control. Trump also waived interest payments on student loans held by federal agencies and told the Energy Department to buy “large quantities of crude oil” at low prices for the strategic reserve. The president’s tone was somber. He warned the virus’s impact “could get worse,” adding that “the next eight weeks are critical.” Donald Trump at a news conference in the Rose Garden of the White House on March 13. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg Two of Paris’s landmarks are closed: The Eiffel Tower shut down on Friday, Agence France Presse reported. And the Louvre has not reopened since Sunday. France had previously banned any gathering of more than 5,000 people. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said he spoke with President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence and they agreed to let the state run its own testing.The approval means that by next week, New York will be able to perform 6,000 tests per day, Cuomo said at a press briefing. To date, the state has tested about 3,200.He also said New York now has the largest number of coronavirus cases in the nation, 421, with 154 in an increasingly shuttered New York City. Items from a COVID-19 test kit. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg Europe has become the epicenter of the outbreak and the world is reporting more new cases of Covid-19 each day than China did when the disease peaked in that country, the head of the World Health Organization said at a briefing. Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said canceling sporting events can help slow the spread and he called on political and religious leaders to give more moral guidance. He said the 5,000 reported deaths is a “tragic milestone.” The situation will worsen in many countries before it gets better, said Maria Van Kerkhove, a WHO epidemiologist. While the situation is improving in Asia, countries where the disease has peaked could experience relapses, she said. Louisiana has postponed its April 4 presidential primary over concerns about coronavirus, the first state to consider suspending voting since the outbreak began. Prime Minister Boris Johnson delayed U.K. local elections scheduled for May 7, including the London mayoral vote. The European Union’s two highest courts, based in Luxembourg, will postpone all hearings that were scheduled for the next two weeks. — With assistance by Enda Curran