With the coronavirus pandemic prompting commuters around the world to stay home, there’s little incentive for fuel producers to absorb a flood of American, Saudi and Russian crude. That’s probably going to leave the market in the hands of short-sellers for some time as oil trading giants hoard the commodity. Hedge funds increased wagers against Brent crude 24% to the highest level since July 2017 in the week ended March 10, data released Friday show. The global benchmark plunged 25% for its worst week since the 2008 financial crisis after Saudi Arabia and Russia decided they’ll no longer show restraint in the face of record U.S. production, starting an all-out war for market share. “Until we have hard evidence of the virus improving or an actual cure, it’s going to be a short-seller’s market,” said Peter McGinn, market strategist at RJ O’Brien & Associates LLC in Chicago. Refiners will be reluctant to buy too much crude in the near term because they might not need it -- and storing it is costly. That triggers a situation known as contango, where the earlier an oil contract’s delivery date, the lower the price. Both Brent and West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, have quickly fallen into that pattern that’s typical of times when the world is awash with crude and demand is weak. Fuel demand is coming under severe pressure as flights are canceled and economic growth stalls. Gasoline futures in New York plunged 35%, their worst week ever. Oil trading giant Trafigura Group’s chief economist said Friday that oil demand is contracting by the most in history, and may be down at some points by 10 million barrels a day. In times like this, short-sellers tend to have the upper hand. Prices rebound briefly when they go on a buying spree to close their positions and drop again when they rebuild their bearish wagers. Brent, which neared $70 a barrel early in January, ended the week below $34. WTI has plunged 50% from its January peak to close below $32 a barrel on Friday. The combined short bets against Brent and WTI have more than doubled since the start of the year, data compiled from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and ICE Futures Europe show.