Photographer: Spencer Platt/Getty Images Photographer: Spencer Platt/Getty Images New York City schools will close Monday, ending classes in the nation’s largest system for what could be weeks in an effort to contain the novel coronavirus. Mayor Bill de Blasio said officials would attempt to reopen the 1.1 million student system on April 20, but acknowledged that classes might be done for the year. Teachers, who will be paid during the closure, will be quickly retrained to work with pupils through remote education. “I know the full cost of shutting our schools. I know all of the negative ramifications of this decision, and it’s very painful,” De Blasio said during a City Hall briefing. “It’s going to be very difficult for a lot of families.” “This is something I could not in a million years imagine having to do,” the mayor said. The closings, which also will happen in suburban counties and likely in New Jersey, follow school cancellations in other states, but they are a dramatic escalation in the region that contains American centers of finance and culture. Governor Andrew Cuomo announced the New York City closing earlier Sunday. Schools in suburban Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk counties will also close Monday, said Melissa DeRosa, a spokeswoman. New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy said Sunday that school closings were an “inevitability.” All the New York localities must provide food programs to those now receiving them, as well as childcare to essential workers. City officials must have a plan in place within 24 hours, DeRosa said. De Blasio had resisted calls to close the schools, arguing they were among the city’s main pillars of social cohesiveness, and warned that hundreds of thousands of children dismissed from class could raise problems as they grew restless and lacked supervision. The schools also provide a first line of health surveillance with most staffed by a nurse, he said. “I know just how much our parents depend on our public schools,” he said Sunday. “I know there are so many parents who do not necessarily have any other place for their children, so many parents who depend on our schools for meals for their children.” De Blasio didn’t order the shutdown of bars and restaurants ahead of St. Patrick’s Day, a holiday notorious in the city for drunken revelry, but said  officials would strictly enforce rules limiting them to 50% capacity. He said stronger measures were under consideration. — With assistance by Elise Young