We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the U.K.’s coronavirus strategy has been effective in slowing down the spread of the disease as the government prepares to impose further restrictions on everyday activities. People over the age of 70 will be asked to stay home in “the coming weeks,” Hancock told Sky News. He acknowledged it would be “a very big ask” as many might have to be isolated for months, and urged the country to work together to help protect the elderly and vulnerable. “Since the early days of the virus, the rate of increase has been slower than in other countries,” Hancock said as he defended Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s approach to tackling the virus. “We will absolutely take the measures that we think are needed at the right time based on the best scientific advice.” Johnson’s government has been criticized for not following other countries by shutting down schools and banning large gatherings to stop the spread of the disease, which has so far claimed the lives of 21 Britons. The U.K. response has instead centered on personal hygiene, self-isolation of those who think they are sick and the tracing and testing of those confirmed to have the disease. Hancock said it would be more effective to ask people to stay home than to ban gatherings and ministers are working on plans to provide food and medicines to those asked to self-isolate. The government will publish the science underpinning its plans to enable open debate, he told Sky News. “What we’ll do is listen to all the credible scientists, and listen to all the evidence, and also listen to all the politicians who are making points about the judgments we make,” Hancock said. “But what we will not do is deviate from a plan which is based on the very best scientific advice.” Johnson will talk to manufacturers in a conference call on Monday to urge them to switch to producing ventilators for the National Health Service and the government has pledged to buy as many as they can produce, Hancock said. Officials are also in talks with private health care providers about using their facilities to boost capacity. — With assistance by Claudia Maedler