Pedestrians wearing protective masks walk through the Times Square in New York, March 12. French President Emmanuel Macron called the coronavirus the epidemic of the century as the death toll from the global outbreak approached 5,000. New York City declared a state of emergency, bringing the financial and cultural capital of the U.S. to a standstill, while school districts around the world shut their doors. Sports groups from Major League Baseball to the PGA Tour suspended play, and Disney closed its theme parks in the U.S. and Europe. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau placed himself in isolation after his wife tested positive. The manager of English soccer club Arsenal and Australia’s minister of home affairs are among other notable names announcing they have the disease. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus and here for maps and charts. For analysis of the impact from Bloomberg Economics, click here. To see the impact on oil and commodities demand, click here. Norway’s central bank delivered an emergency half-percentage point cut to its main interest rate as policy makers pump stimulus into the economy a week ahead of a scheduled meeting. The bank, which cut the benchmark rate to 1% from 1.5%, said it “is monitoring developments closely and is prepared to make further rate cuts.” The southern German state of Bavaria will close all schools and nurseries from Monday until the beginning of the Easter vacation in the first week of April, news agency DPA reported, citing unidentified government sources. Bavaria is the second of Germany’s 16 federal states to close schools after Saarland on the French border, DPA said. The number of confirmed cases in Germany jumped to 2,369 Thursday, with five deaths. Australian Minister for Home Affairs Peter Dutton has tested positive for the coronavirus, according to a statement on his twitter account. “It is the policy of Queensland Health that anyone who tests positive is to be admitted into hospital and I have complied with their advice,” he said in the statement. “I feel fine and will provide an update in due course.” His statement comes after Australia escalated its response to the coronavirus outbreak, advising against non-essential, organized gatherings of 500 people or more. Australia’s official tally of confirmed cases stood at 156 on Friday, up 24% from the previous day. Roche Holding AG said it won emergency approval from the U.S. government for a highly automated coronavirus test, potentially speeding up the ability to test patients by a factor of 10. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted “Emergency Use Authorization” to the test, which runs on Roche’s cobas 6800/8800 systems. The tool also is available in Europe and countries that accept its CE marking for medical devices, Roche said. The 8800 version is capable of testing 4,128 patients a day, and the 6800 can test as many as 1,440, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said. England’s Premier League called an emergency meeting to discuss future matches after Arsenal Football Club head coach Mikel Arteta tested positive for the coronavirus. The meeting will take place Friday morning U.K. time, the league said in a statement shortly after Arteta’s diagnosis was made public. The Spaniard, who became manager of Arsenal in late 2019, said he sought a test for the coronavirus after feeling ill. Uncertainty over the Premier League season comes after a swathe of sporting cancellations in the U.S. and other parts of the world. The NCAA, Major League Baseball, PGA Tour and the National Hockey League will suspend play, joining other American organizations including the National Basketball Association in responding to the coronavirus threat. Mikel Arteta Photographer: Julian Finney/Getty Images Indonesia unveiled an emergency fiscal stimulus plan worth 22.92 trillion rupiah ($1.55 billion) as it seeks to protect Southeast Asia’s largest economy from the coronavirus crisis. The package, which follows $745 million in stimulus announced last month, comes amid a deteriorating outlook for Indonesia’s economy. Despite only 34 confirmed cases of Covid-19 so far, the country has been hit hard by the risk aversion sweeping global markets. Australia is advising against non-essential gatherings of 500 people or more from Monday, in an escalation of the nation’s response to the coronavirus outbreak. Prime Minister Scott Morrison told reporters in Sydney the move would not impact schools, universities or public transport. Morrison also urged Australians to reconsider their need to travel overseas. The nation’s official tally of confirmed cases stood at 156 on Friday, up 24% from the previous day, with three fatalities. Singapore said it will cease port calls for all cruise vessels with immediate effect, and bar the entry and transit of visitors with recent travel history to Italy, France, Spain and Germany, as coronavirus cases rise globally. The temporary border restrictions for the European countries will come into effect from March 15, the health ministry said in a statement Friday. Zhao Lijian Photographer: Roman Balandin\TASS via Getty Images A Chinese foreign ministry official pushed a conspiracy theory the U.S. army may have had a role in spreading the virus, highlighting growing tensions between the world’s biggest economies as both governments seek to deflect blame for the outbreak. “It might be US army who brought the epidemic to Wuhan,” Zhao Lijian, a foreign ministry spokesman, said in a tweet. “Be transparent! Make public your data! US owe us an explanation!” He later followed up with another tweet urging his 284,000 followers to share an article arguing that the virus originated in the U.S. With the coronavirus spreading from China into the U.S. and around the world, both nations are trading tit-for-tat claims about its origins. New infections of the coronavirus in China dropped to single digits for the first time since the country began reporting daily numbers in mid-January. As of March 12, China had eight new cases and seven additional deaths, said the National Health Commission on Friday. The dramatic plunge to a single-digit increase -- from the height of nearly 15,000 cases added in one day on Feb. 13 -- is another sign that viral outbreak has come under control at its epicenter for now, despite accelerating its spread in Europe and the U.S. China now has 80,813 total confirmed cases. Total deaths rose by seven to 3,176. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s wife, Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, tested positive for the coronavirus and will remain in isolation, the prime minister’s office said in a statement. Justin Trudeau, who put himself in self-isolation and is working from home, will not be tested at this stage, according to the statement. “I am feeling fine & I’m not exhibiting any symptoms of the virus, but I will also be following the advice of our doctor and I will continue to self-isolate for now,” Justin Trudeau said in a tweet. Justin Trudeau, and his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau. Photographer: Chris Wattie/Bloomberg House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she’s near an agreement with the Trump administration on a plan to mitigate some of the economic blows from the coronavirus outbreak. Pelosi put off a vote on a package of measures proposed by Democrats after day-long talks with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. She said she hopes to announce on Friday whether a deal has been struck. A worker disinfects a Seoul Metro subway train on March 11. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg South Korea’s health ministry announced 110 more cases of novel coronavirus in the nation, bringing the total tally to 7,979. Deaths rose by 1 to 67, while 510 patients have been released after recovery. Walt Disney Co. is closing its theme parks in Florida, California and Paris in response to the coronavirus pandemic, and will suspend all new cruise departures starting Saturday. The closings in Florida and France followed a decision earlier Thursday to shutter the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim, California. Disney has already closed its parks in Asia. The entertainment giant isn’t alone in shuttering theme parks. Universal Studios Hollywood is also closing on Saturday. U.S. President Donald Trump suggested the Tokyo Olympics should be postponed amid the spread of the deadly coronavirus, as the events’ organizers denied they were considering changing the start planned for July 24. “I would say maybe they postpone it for a year,” Trump told reporters when asked his opinion on the arrangements for the event. “I like that better than having empty stadiums all over the place,” he added. Trump said he does not plan on making the recommendation to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. 2004 gold medallist Mizuki Noguchi runs with the Olympic flame in Olympia on March 12. Photographer: Valerie Gache/AFP via Getty Images American Airlines Group Inc. said it is in contact with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and public health officials after a pilot tested positive for the coronavirus. The pilot is undergoing treatment, and the Allied Pilots Association is contacting the pilot’s co-workers. Neither the union nor the airline would confirm when the pilot became ill, say if he or she was flying recently or release any personal information. Formula One confirmed it will cancel this year’s season-opening Australian Grand Prix event in Melbourne, adding to the ranks of major global sports disrupted by the coronavirus outbreak. Fans wait outside of the gates before practice for the F1 Grand Prix of Australia in Melbourne on March 13. Photographer: Quinn Rooney/Getty Images The decision was taken after a member of the McLaren Racing team tested positive for coronavirus, Liberty Media Corp.-owned Formula One, the FIA governing body and Australian Grand Prix Corp. said in a statement. The event, which includes practice and qualifying sessions, attracted 324,000 spectators to Melbourne across four days in 2019, including 102,000 on race day, according to the Victoria state government. Teams had been scheduled to begin a practice session at midday Friday ahead of Sunday’s main race. Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte announced that he’s placing the capital region of Manila in a lockdown for a month to help contain the outbreak of the new coronavirus. Duterte is also restricting entry for travelers from countries with local transmission, and suspending domestic travel to and from Metro Manila - a region of more than 12 million people - from March 15 to April 14, subject to daily review. Disinfection workers spray anti-septic solution in Manila, March 11. Photographer: Ezra Acayan/Getty Images Large school districts across the U.S. announced closures to prevent the virus’s spread. San Francisco is planning to close all public schools for three weeks starting March 16. Maryland Governor Larry Hogan said every school in state would shut for two weeks. In Ohio, Governor Mike DeWine said schools would close for a three-week period. Washington Governor Jay Inslee ordered the closure of all schools, public and private, in King, Snohomish and Pierce counties from March 15 until April 24. King County, which includes Seattle, has the highest number of cases and the majority of deaths in the state, most of which have occurred among patients at a nursing home. “It’s really important not to sugarcoat the situation we are in,” Inslee said. “It is our job to slow down the spread of this virus and we think we can do that.” Belgium ordered the closure of all bars and restaurants and other leisure venues, caretaker Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes announced in Brussels. All public schools will suspend classes as of Monday until April 3, the start of a two-week Easter holiday. Stores selling non-essential goods are being told to close their doors on Saturdays, to avoid contact between people not regularly meeting. Food stores and pharmacies will remain open in the weekend. Mayor Bill de Blasio declared a state of emergency for New York, saying the city would enforce its decree against many public gatherings to combat the new coronavirus outbreak. “All of our large venues will no longer have gatherings,” the mayor said at a news conference. “I suspect it will be a number of months.” Members of the New York Army National Guard unload bags of food from a truck at a distribution station in New Rochelle, New York, March 12. Photographer: Angus Mordant/Bloomberg The order also applies to restaurants and bars, he said. Venues under 500 capacity will operate at 50% occupancy. He called the overall numbers of new virus cases “striking and troubling.” “We now have 95 confirmed cases, 42 new since yesterday,” the mayor said, “29 in mandatory quarantine, more than 1,700 in voluntary quarantine.” France ordered the closing of nurseries, schools and universities from the beginning of next week to slow the spread of the coronavirus, which President Emmanuel Macron called the worst health crisis in a century. France urged people to work from home, limit travel, and keep the most fragile citizens and people over 70 in their houses. “The government will use all the financial means necessary to save lives, whatever the cost,” the president said. A broadcast of France President Emmanuel Macron about the situation of the COVID-19 outbreak, March 12. Photographer: Ludovic Marin/AFP via Getty Images New York Governor Andrew Cuomo banned gatherings of more than 500 people to slow the virus’s spread. He also banned visitors to nursing homes, though the restrictions didn’t apply to them, nor to hospitals, schools or mass transit.He said the density rules will apply to Broadway, starting Thursday night. The New York Philharmonic canceled performances through March, it said in a statement. Cuomo reported a 112 new cases in New York for a total of 328. There were no deaths, he said. Fabio Wajngarten Photographer: Andre Borges/NurPhoto via Getty Images The White House said President Trump had “almost no interactions” with a visiting staff member of Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro. The aide had attended a dinner with the president at Mar-a-Lago over the weekend and has since tested positive with the coronavirus.Pictures show the aide, Fabio Wajngarten, Bolsonaro’s communications secretary, side by side with Trump, wearing a “Make Brazil Great Again” hat.“I’m not concerned,” Trump said at a news conference. An empty Capital One Arena prior to the game between Detroit Red Wings and the Washington Capitals at on March 12. Photographer: Patrick Smith/Getty Images The death toll in Italy rose to 1,016 from 827, civil protection officials said on Thursday. The European nation has 15,113 total cases, up from 12,462 previously reported. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told lawmakers Thursday that the U.S. testing system for coronavirus is “a failing” and not yet ready to ramp up to test more Americans. “The idea of anyone getting it easily the way people in other countries are doing it, we’re not setup for that,” he said at a House Oversight Committee hearing. — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland, Sophie Alexander, John Tozzi, Dina Bass, and John Martens