Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. Markets melted down spectacularly, central banks have disappointed and now eyes turn to what governments can do on both sides of the Atlantic. Here’s what’s moving markets. If markets are going to have one historic day of falls in a week, why not have a second? Thursday was even more brutal than Monday, with Europe’s main stock gauge falling the  most on record, European markets more broadly going into  meltdown and U.S. equities crushed, too. The European Central Bank’s response  disappointed investors and so did the Federal Reserve’s  bond-buying move. It all puts the focus squarely back on what fiscal measures governments intend to take to deal with the economic fallout of the virus, because it would appear central bank influence  is waning. So all eyes are back on governments and  the Fed. Europe’s response is ramping up after it was  blindsided by the U.S. travel ban. The U.K.’s government is now focused on  delaying the worst of the outbreak and conceding that many more will be infected, though whether the economy is strong enough to withstand the hit is  in question and talk of the  three-day-week of the 1970s is echoing. Normal day-to-day life in Italy has effectively  ended for the time being, France is  closing schools, Spain’s deputy premier has been  quarantined and the country is banning short-selling on some stocks on Friday. Plus, eastern European countries are  restricting entry and closing sites. Equally important for European, indeed global, markets will be what the U.S. government does to shore itself against the virus hit, with New York having now declared a  state of emergency. President Donald Trump said he  won't back the bill put forward by the Democrats and the Senate has canceled the recess planned for next week. There are said to have been fierce battles in the Oval Office over Trump’s address on the virus earlier this week. And the president said he  doesn't need to be tested for coronavirus, despite having met an aide to Brazil’s president who later tested positive. The market carnage was near-universal. Equities first. Traders described a “total capitulation” and black swans abound, bear markets signal an  80% chance of recession, trillion-dollar valuations are  under threat and Canadian stocks flirt with the  worst drop since the 1940s. Big corporates are  maxing out credit lines, Brazilian assets got  slammed and there are fears global new investment will  grind to a halt. Plus palladium  got crushed and entered a bear market, investors are even  selling gold to meet their liquidity needs and, not to be left out, Bitcoin  nosedived. Stocks in Asia plunged after yesterday's havoc but European and U.S. stock futures declined  have eased, though anyone who has been covering markets in recent days would advise against relaxing. Oil prices are also having a slightly better start to the day, though remain on track for the worst weekly decline  since 2008. Earnings are very thin on the ground and the data slate is relatively bare, with German, French and Spanish inflation coming. This is what’s caught our eye over the past 24 hours. Like Bloomberg's Five Things? Subscribe for unlimited access to trusted, data-based journalism in 120 countries around the world and gain expert analysis from exclusive daily newsletters, The Bloomberg Open and The Bloomberg Close. Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal. Find out more about how the Terminal delivers information and analysis that financial professionals can't find anywhere else. Learn more.