Boris Johnson will launch a publicity blitz on Monday as he seeks to maintain support for his coronavirus strategy after the U.K. death toll from the disease rose to 35. The U.K. premier and senior ministers will be joined by medical and scientific advisers in daily televised briefings intended to reassure the public after his government said it is preparing further restrictions on everyday activities and to ask people over the age of 70 to stay home. The U.K. has been criticized for not following other countries which have shut schools and banned large gatherings to stop the spread of the disease. Its response so far has centered on personal hygiene, self-isolation of those who think they’re sick, and tracing and testing those who had contact with people who tested positive. “The prime minister and this government are committed to keeping the public informed every step of the way about what we’re doing to fight the spread of coronavirus, when we’re doing it and why we’re doing it,” Johnson’s office said in a statement. “At all times we will be led by the science to bring forward the right responses at the right time to this global pandemic.” Johnson’s team has been criticized for not being open enough about its plans after favored media outlets were briefed about the details rather than information being made publicly available. Gavin Barwell in 2019. Photographer: Chris J. Ratcliffe/Bloomberg “I cannot say this strongly enough: Ministers need to stop anonymously briefing journalists and start speaking directly to the public,” Gavin Barwell, who was chief of staff to Johnson’s predecessor Theresa May, said on Twitter. “Trust in government is going to be vital during the difficult months ahead and it is best fostered by transparency, not off the record briefing.” The number of deaths rose to 35 on Sunday, compared to 21 a day earlier, according to data released by the U.K.’s department of health and social care. A total of 1,372 had tested positive for the disease, compared to 1,140 on Saturday, it said. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said telling people over 70 to remain at home would be “a very big ask” as many might have to be isolated for months, but insisted it was for their own protection and urged the country to work together to help the elderly and vulnerable. Matt Hancock on March 12. Photographer: Facundo Arrizabalaga/EPA/Bloomberg He said the U.K.’s strategy has been effective in slowing down the spread of the disease and will be toughened as the pandemic progresses. “Since the early days of the virus, the rate of increase has been slower than in other countries,” Hancock told Sky News as he defended Johnson’s approach. Ministers will introduce proposed emergency laws to Parliament this week to enable them to take action to control the outbreak. The legislation will include powers to ban large gatherings and reinforce regulations allowing people to be quarantined if they are judged to be a risk to the public. The opposition Labour Party, which has broadly supported the government response so far, said there should be a provision for low paid and insecure workers in the legislation, including guaranteed sick pay, mortgage and rent holidays and help for food banks.