A man wearing a protective mask walks past electoral campaign posters after voting during the first round of mayoral elections in Paris on, March  15. Photographer: Chesnot/Getty Images Photographer: Chesnot/Getty Images We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. French voters are braving the country’s virtual lockdown to cast votes in municipal elections Sunday in a test for the mechanics of democracy in the age of the coronavirus. The vote to choose mayors for more than 35,000 municipalities comes a day after the government ordered the closing of cafes, restaurants and all non-essential businesses across the country after the number of confirmed cases doubled in a 72-hour period to more than 4,500. Schools had already been shut and travel curbed. France’s science council confirmed that the vote could go ahead as long as people “strictly respect guidelines on distancing,” French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe, who is also running for mayor of Le Havre, said at a news conference Saturday. “In these conditions, voting will take place as planned.” The surge in global cases has prompted governments around the world to mandate sweeping restrictions on public life and the measures are a challenge to the normal functioning of democracy. In the U.S., the states of Georgia and Louisiana delayed presidential primary voting, and Democrat candidates Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders have had to cancel public campaign events. The U.K. on Friday postponed local elections, including voting in the London mayoral race. The southern German state of Bavaria, by contrast, is also going ahead with municipal elections Sunday, though local media said a large proportion of votes -- in some places significantly more than half -- have been made by post. French President Emmanuel Macron considered scrapping the elections, but relented after consulting opposition parties, who stand to make gains in the ballot. Recent polls have shown Macron’s popularity dwindling, and opposition to his overhaul of the pension system has remained strong even as protests have died down. Macron’s three-year-old party only presented candidates in half of the large cities holding ballots. France has adopted measures to limit exposure of voters. Despite these measures, a record-low turnout of 42% is forecast, according to an IFOP poll. Voters under 35 are the most reluctant to vote because of the virus, while only 11% of seniors, the most vulnerable to the virus, were considering skipping the election, according to an earlier poll.