We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. If traders hoped Friday’s turnaround would prove more than a moment of relief for the world’s shell-shocked markets, an emergency interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve and coordinated steps by other central banks failed to bring any lasting sense of stability. The dollar fell across the board as the U.S. central bank lowered rates to 0%-0.25%, a level last seen in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. The yen climbed more than 1% and the euro erased losses to add 0.7%. The currency market was the only one active among major markets when the Fed measures were announced. S&P 500 futures tumbled more than 4% as trading began at 6 p.m. in New York, tripping exchange trading curbs, as contracts on Treasuries surged. Rates strategists warned that part of the U.S. yield curve could soon turn negative. Traders were pricing in another steep rate reduction to address the fallout from coronavirus at the Fed’s March 17-18 meeting but the timing and extent of Sunday’s announcement still came as a shock. Beyond the rate cut, the Fed promised to boost its bond holdings by at least $700 billion and said it would allow banks to borrow from the discount window for as long as 90 days and reduce reserve requirement ratios to 0%. “It’s pulling Wednesday’s meeting forward -- a rate cut, QE and swap lines to make sure the market plumbing is working sufficiently,” said Mark McCormick, global head of FX strategy at Toronto Dominion Bank. “The knee-jerk is negative for the U.S. dollar given the Fed has now slashed the cost of selling it.” Fed Chairman Jerome Powell will hold a press conference at 6 p.m. Washington time to discuss the actions. The Fed also united with five counterparts to ensure dollars are available around the world via swap lines, the statement aid. The options market signaled that currency volatility remains elevated after one of the most turbulent weeks since 2008 amid funding concerns that stoke demand for the greenback. “The USD should absolutely be sold,” Bipan Rai, North American head of foreign exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, wrote in a message. “The Fed just implemented emergency measures and cut rates to zero while expanding its balance sheet by 16%. That’s a bad concoction for the greenback.” Earlier, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand set the tone for what promises to be another busy week for monetary policy, cutting its key rate to 0.25% from 1% in an emergency decision in Wellington. The nation’s currency plunged to its lowest since May 2009 in early trading Monday after the decision, before erasing that loss when the Fed followed with its own unexpected cut. Australia’s currency -- which tends to rise and fall with risk appetite -- swung to a gain after touching its weakest since 2008 and the Norwegian krone bounced back from a fresh record low versus the greenback. While governments and central banks around the world announce unprecedented economic-stimulus measures -- indicating a growing willingness to coordinate their actions -- economists say virus-triggered closures and national lockdowns are making a global recession all but unavoidable. That means further market gyrations in the week ahead, gains for havens such as U.S. Treasuries, and more nervousness in stocks, commodities and emerging markets. “While the drop in rates to zero was priced in for the Fed this week, the timing of the rate cut itself has taken many by surprise,” said Simon Harvey, an FX analyst at Monex Europe. “Markets have already bullied the Fed into cutting rates to zero, but the associated liquidity package all in one day dwarfs what was seen after 2008.” Here are more comments, made before the Fed’s action, on what to expect as markets open Monday: Andrew Sheets, Morgan Stanley’s chief cross-asset strategist: James Reeve, the chief economist at Samba Financial Group in Riyadh: Ryan Lemand, the senior executive officer at ADS Investment Solutions Limited in Abu Dhabi: Edward Bell, senior director for market economics at Emirates NBD PJSC in Dubai: D’Ambrosio, the Malta-based chief executive officer at Axiory Global. — With assistance by Filipe Pacheco, Michael G Wilson, and Vassilis Karamanis