Photographer: Haidar Hamdani/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Haidar Hamdani/AFP via Getty Images Staying healthy is a Catch-22 these days. A well-intentioned sweat session could mean picking up the dreaded coronavirus. Fitness centers are on alert. Peloton closed its public studios “out of an abundance of caution,” while only odd-numbered SoulCycle bikes will be available to book come Monday. “We’ll be limiting the number of people in our studios at any given time as a precautionary measure,” SoulCycle Inc. said in an email to riders. Taryn Toomey’s “The Class,” a yoga-mat workout set to music that claims to encourage the discharge of toxic energy, will limit classes to 50% capacity to allow for more space between students and teachers. “During these extraordinary times, we know that the work of release, strength, and stabilization is needed more than ever,” the company said in an email. Lululemon Scraps Yoga Classes, Limits Hours Due to Coronavirus If shop-til-you-drop is your idea of exercise, most major department stores in the U.S. remain open. Saks Fifth Avenue stores “continue to be a safe place for you to shop,” the retailer wrote in an email. You won’t be able to visit an Apple store, however. The company announced Friday night it will shutter hundreds of retail stores until March 27. The “most effective way to minimize risk of the virus’s transmission is to reduce density and maximize social distance,” Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said in a letter posted on Apple’s website. “Frankly it’s good that they do it,” President Donald Trump said at a press conference Saturday. “We want to keep people away for a little while.” Patagonia Inc. has closed its stores, and will ensure its staff continues to be paid. “We apologize that over the next two weeks, there will be delays on orders and customer-service requests,” the company said. Fashion brand Reformation has also decided to temporarily close its doors. “As always, we’re available on the Corona-immune Internet,” the Los Angeles-based company said.