U.S. equity futures tumbled in the start to another volatile week, giving up much of a Friday rebound, after the Federal Reserve announced a massive easing in policy in an emergency move. Treasury futures surged. Futures on the S&P 500 Index fell about 5%, hitting limits on trading, after stocks climbed more than 9% on Wall Street Friday, recouping most of their 10% plunge the previous day. Wild swings have become an almost daily occurrence as investors assess the efficacy of actions by authorities to contain the coronavirus, moves that have had a crippling economic impact. The yen soared after the Fed cut its key interest rate by a full percentage point to near zero and said it will boost its bond holdings by $700 billion. Australian shares sank and Japanese equities futures were down more than 5%, while oil resumed declines. “The Fed made an emergency drop this weekend -- I think that says they’re very worried about the larger economy,” Kim Forrest, chief investment officer at Bokeh Capital Partners, said by phone. “People are really freaked out by this and I think they’re trying to keep the economy going.” The U.S. central bank also announced several other actions, including letting banks borrow from the discount window for as long as 90 days and reducing reserve requirement ratios to zero percent. Fed chairman Jerome Powell reiterated his opposition to negative interest rates in a conference call, indicating the U.S. remains unlikely to follow counterparts in Japan and Europe in the future. The New Zealand dollar was lower following that country’s emergency interest-rate cut earlier. Europe is now reporting more daily cases than China did at the peak of the coronavirus outbreak there, with global cases topping 160,000. Gains in gold and Treasury futures showed renewed demand for haven assets, with traders expecting more market volatility this week amid doubts that Friday’s rally in U.S. equities can be sustained. The moves from policy makers follow the worst rout in equities since the global financial crisis and escalating risks of a recession in major economies. Over the weekend, the U.S. extended its travel ban to more countries and cases continued to surge in Europe, while airlines continue to take drastic measures to weather the collapse in travel. “Markets are trying to grapple with immense uncertainty around the depth and duration of the coronavirus’s impact on global growth,” said Shane Oliver, head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd. in Sydney.” The U.S. broadened its temporary travel restrictions to include the U.K. and Ireland, two countries left out of an earlier order aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus. Source: Bloomberg Here are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Zoe Schneeweiss, and Cormac Mullen