Fogo Cruzado founder Cecilia Oliveira shows the Fogo Cruzado App in her laptop in Rio de Janeiro in 2018. Photographer: Mauro Pimentel / AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Mauro Pimentel / AFP via Getty Images Dueling gunshots ring across Rio de Janeiro daily, as armed battles involving drug traffickers as well as police claim thousands of lives in the Brazilian city every year. In one week in September alone, at least 33 people were shot in 69 shootings. Thirteen of them were killed. Those hard numbers don’t come from government sources or police dispatches. They come from Fogo Cruzado (“Crossfire”), a mobile app and online platform that gathers and cross-checks gunfire reports from journalists, police officers and residents around the city. Created by journalist and researcher Cecilia Oliveira in 2016 with the support of Amnesty International and a team of volunteers, the app aims to improve on a dearth of reliable data and alert civilians to dangerous events. Another app introduced in 2017, Onde Tem Tiroteio (“Where There's a Shooting”), is similar — it maps reports of shootings, floods, demonstrations, robberies and fake police checkpoints sent in from users. Such battles often erupt in the city’s hundreds of favelas — low-income, densely packed neighborhoods of informal settlements where city services are often lacking. There, residents and nearby travelers have relied on local knowledge to avoid the stray bullets that routinely claim innocent lives. The apps offer users new ways of navigating the city amid the recent surges in gun violence, and their popularity is conveyed by the more than 250,000 mobile downloads of Fogo Cruzado and the more than 4.7 million people who receive OTT’s alerts, according to the app’s founder. But by highlighting individual workarounds to urban violence, the apps might be magnifying a larger problem for society. Marcelo Batista Nery, a scholar of sociology who studies violence and crime at the University of São Paulo, fears that these tools reinforce harmful biases. In his research of how Brazilians report crime on various mobile apps, including these two, he found that the incidents that tend to get flagged are highly influenced by what locals see in the news. His research has revealed that areas that receive a swell of media attention after one violent event will often be dotted with crowdsourced incident reports in the following days. The media has its own biases to begin with: Shootings in favelas near major traffic arteries and richer neighborhoods often get far more attention than ones in remote areas, he has found. The upshot is that the neighborhoods that these tools tend to represent as violent “are not necessarily the most violent from the point of view of criminal record,” Nery says. Instead, the ethnic, racial, and economic characteristics of the residents matter most, with favelas that are predominately home to Black Brazilians cropping up most often as the places to avoid. This risks deepening the existing stigma facing residents of such areas, some of which are already considered “no go zones” by the likes of Waze, Uber, and even the Brazilian postal service, Nery says. What’s more, it is the very residents of these neighborhoods who stand the greatest risk of getting killed by gunfire, whether from civilians or police. Crime-tracking apps emerged as an answer to desperate times for civilians in the seaside metropolis. Violent crime rose along with Brazil’s uneven economic growth and lagging social services, with homicides spiking in 2017. In 2019 Rio’s homicide count dropped to its lowest point in nearly 30 years, mirroring a national decline. But that coincided with an 18% surge in police killings, with officer gunfire claiming some five lives per day. Entering office at the start of that year, Rio de Janeiro Governor Wilson Witzel (who was suspended in August amid corruption allegations) vowed to “dig graves” to fight crime. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has promised to stamp out criminal actors as well. While “stray bullet incidents” have become a significant threat to civilians in recent years, the city government does not officially track them. Lately the apps have reflected how those pledges are being executed, with a growing volume of reported police raids and as well as a large increase in shooting deaths caused by police interventions during quarantine earlier this year. Similar crowdsourced public safety tools exist elsewhere in the world. In Mumbai, EyeWatch seeks to collect reports of violence against women and find ways to help victims. Safecity in Nepal, India, Kenya and Cameroon aggregates data on sexual violence as well as providing safety tips and services. In El Salvador, Smart192 aims at connecting citizens with local authorities. In the U.S, the crime-tracking app Citizen collects reports of suspicious activity and crime in 20 cities — sparking a parallel debate about the prejudices that mark certain groups as more “criminal” than others. Oliveira says that Fogo Cruzado was built with a number of goals in mind, including to hold authorities accountable for diagnosing the causes of violence and to reduce risks for people who are most vulnerable to it. While she has concerns about the maps exacerbating stigma against favela residents, she also feels that “not talking about [the situation] is not a strategy either.” Tools like Fogo Cruzado are needed to compensate for the lack of reliable data from official sources, Oliveira says. For example, while “stray bullet incidents” have become a significant threat to civilians in recent years, the city government does not officially track them. Dennis Coli, one of the founders of Onde Tem Tiroteio, says that his app is revealing a much greater extent of violence than Brazilians previously imagined. “In the past there was no such perception of the amount of gunfire and confrontations with firearms taking place,” he says. “There were only statistics of robberies and murders.” For users like journalist Bruno de Blasi, the apps function as essential tools for trip-planning. “Before going somewhere, I take a look and wonder if it’s worth looking for an alternative route or not,” says de Blasi, who uses Fogo Cruzado in his work and daily life. These types of apps do and can do good, Nery says. But he believes that they must be balanced with data that is gathered in more rigorous ways in order to resist the inevitable biases of crowdsourced reporting. For example, the apps could educate users about biases and limitations in the data, as well as the differences between the rate and frequency of violence in particular areas, he suggested. They could also pair crowdsourced data with the social and demographic characteristics of the city’s population. Such tools, combined, might better reveal the depth of the government’s failures, Nery believes. “Platforms like these were not made to avoid places, but to press the public authorities so that the occurrence doesn’t happen again,” he said. “But that is not what commonly happens.”