Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. The U.K.’s Premier League terminated its lucrative soccer broadcast agreement in China amid growing tensions between the two countries and escalating financial fallout from Covid-19. The league cut off access after its Chinese streaming licensee withheld payment, according to a person familiar with the situation who asked not to be named because the matter is private. The value of the agreement has been reported at more than 500 million pounds ($665 million). The decision means state television broadcaster CCTV, which also has the rights to broadcast Premier League matches in China, will not show the start of the new season, scheduled for Sept. 12. The Premier League did not offer further comment in an emailed statement. The streaming service -- Suning Holdings Group Co.’s PPTV -- and CCTV could not immediately be reached for comment. England Soccer League Revenue, 2016/17 to 2020/21 (€ billion) Deloitte  The Premier League’s move to cut off access comes after CCTV relegated the matches from its main sports channel to one that lures fewer viewers. Ties between the U.K. and China have deteriorated in recent months, with the U.K. banning telecommunications giant Huawei Technologies Co. and opposing a new security law imposed in Hong Kong. “This development is taking place against the backdrop of increasingly sour relations between the U.K. and China,” said Simon Chadwick, director of the Centre for the Eurasian Sport Industry. “It therefore seems likely that there is some not inconsiderable politicking behind this decision.” Read more: China’s State TV Demotes English Soccer Amid Spat With U.K. The breakdown between the Premier League and one of its largest overseas markets could have a major impact on U.K. club finances. Some of the top teams in England, such as Manchester United, have millions of supporters in China and operate fan shops there. After the pandemic led sports organizers around the world to cancel matches and start their new seasons in empty stadiums, some broadcasters have negotiated discounts for carriage rights. Consultant Deloitte estimates that Premier League clubs are heading for a record pretax loss for 2019-20. The pandemic cost the organization and its clubs around 1 billion euros ($1.1 billion) in revenue for last season, according to the firm. The Premier League has boosted its popularity in Asia substantially in the past few years, staging pre-season tournaments in the region. Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur traveled to Shanghai for an exhibition game last year. Some English clubs such as Manchester City, Southampton and West Bromwich Albion count Chinese tycoons or firms as investors. The Fosun Group, controlled by billionaire Guo Guangchang, owns Wolverhampton Wanderers FC. — With assistance by Feifei Shen, Tiago Ramos Alfaro, and Deana Kjuka