Follow us  @middleeast for more news on the region. Libyan General Khalifa Haftar said he will lift a blockade on Libyan crude production after an agreement with the country’s deputy premier, but it was unclear whether the deal that excluded the National Oil Co. would actually restart exports. Haftar, whose forces control oil-rich eastern Libya, said on television that he has decided to allow the reopening of the nation’s ports “as per conditions and guarantees that ensure a fair distribution of wealth and spare it being plundered or used in terrorism financing.” The announcement was the result of talks with Ahmed Maiteeq, deputy prime minister of the Tripoli-based Government of National Accord. It’s unclear how much of the 1.1 million barrels a day Libya was pumping prior to the blockade could actually return to the market, or how quickly. Libya’s National Oil Co. has previously denounced the “secretive” talks between Haftar and Maiteeq and has said it won’t resume exports until foreign mercenaries leave the country -- something that’s not part of Friday’s deal. A spokesman for the NOC declined to comment. Oil initially dropped, then recovered. Brent crude was little changed near $43 a barrel as of 2:06 p.m. in London. There have been false dawns before in efforts to resolve the long-running conflict between Haftar’s Libya National Army, who control eastern Libya, and the GNA. Deputy Premier Ahmed Maiteeq told Bloomberg in a phone interview that he was confident Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj will back the new accord, but he also acknowledged that the NOC wasn’t part of the discussions that led to the deal. Haftar had conditioned resuming production on a mechanism being in place to distribute revenue, officials said. The NOC, backed by the U.S. and United Nations, had proposed freezing revenue until that mechanism is decided, and also conditioned lifting the export shutdown on the withdrawal of Wagner, a Russian mercenary force, and other armed groups. Any additional supplies would be entering the market at an unfortunate time, just as the recovery from the historic slump triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic is faltering. Brent crude, the international benchmark, fell below $40 a barrel last week for the first time since June, prompting a robust response from OPEC+ at a meeting on Thursday. Despite having Africa’s largest crude reserves, Libya may struggle to ramp up production quickly even if the conflict has abated. Its oil industry is crumbling after more than nine years of neglected maintenance amid a civil war that’s killed thousands and destroyed towns across the country. The lack of basic, nuts-and-bolts servicing has left pipelines corroding and storage tanks collapsing.