The U.K. recommended people work from home if possible with the government set to announce new restrictions on bars and restaurants. India posted the lowest daily case increase in two weeks while South Korean infections increased by less than 100 for a third day, the first such streak since mid-August, and Hong Kong extended social distancing measures by a week. The U.S. is approaching 200,000 deaths from Covid-19 and Apple Inc. predicted a permanent change with remote work. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The U.S. is nearing 200,000 Covid-19 fatalities Source: Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg  People in the U.K. should work from home if possible as the country prepares to impose new measures on social distancing. “If it is possible for people to work from home, then we’d encourage them to do so,” U.K. Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove told Sky News on Tuesday. The government will help people work from home and Gove said “no” when asked if it still wanted 80% of its officials back working in ministry offices. He confirmed a new measure to close hospitality venues at 10 p.m. Closing Germany’s borders because of rising infection rates in neighboring countries such as France, Netherlands and Austria is not the government’s first choice of response, according to Chancellery Minister Helge Braun. “We have not had good experiences with border closures,” Braun said Tuesday in an interview with ZDF television. Germany relies on commuters such as nursing staff coming from France and truckers bringing goods into the country, he said. “It’s a big challenge to prevent infections crossing over from a neighboring country,” Braun said. “But in both the labor market and in tourism we have concepts that give us a chance of success if we’re consistent.” India, the second-worst affected country, reported 75,083 new coronavirus infections in the lowest daily increase since Sept. 7. The latest numbers are down from more than 86,000 on Monday and new infections above 90,000 the previous four days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s case tally is has now reached 5.56 million while the coronavirus-related death toll is 88,935, according to government data. The Ministry of Health said that the country registered its highest single day of recoveries, with more than 100,000 recovering in the past 24 hours. Thailand found five new imported coronavirus cases, all detected in state quarantine, after people traveled from India and Switzerland. The Southeast Asian nation’s total infections are 3,511 cases. Hong Kong Disneyland Park will officially re-open on Friday with all guests required to undergo temperature screening and wear face masks. Guests will have to reserve their visit 7 days in advance although holders of the Magic Access annual pass can do so 1 day ahead, according to a notice on its website. Character experiences will be adjusted to avoid close interaction, indoor live performances will be suspended and the theme park will close on Tuesdays and Thursdays during the initial phase, with exceptions made for public holidays, it said. Hong Kong’s four-person limit on public gatherings and other social distancing measures will be extended by a week to Oct. 1, Chief Executive Carrie Lam told a briefing. Hong Kong’s rules currently mandate face masks, allow dine-in services until midnight and have enabled the re-opening of pubs, swimming pools, karaoke places and theme parks. Watch: Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam says the city will extend all social distancing rules by another week to Oct. 1. (Source: Bloomberg) Apple Inc. Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said he’s been impressed by ability of employees to operate remotely and predicted that some new work habits will remain after the pandemic. Apple created products including new Apple Watches and iPads that are launching on time this year, despite the need for most employees to work away from the office due to Covid-19, Cook said during an interview at The Atlantic Festival on Monday. Cook said he doesn’t believe Apple will “return to the way we were because we’ve found that there are some things that actually work really well virtually.” Cook said 10% to 15% of Apple employees have gone back to the office and he hopes the majority of staff can return to the company’s new campus in Silicon Valley sometime next year. South Korea reported 61 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, the third straight day that the increase has been below 100. The total number of confirmed cases in the country has now reached 23,106 while the death toll rose by three to 388, account to data from Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. People sit in outdoor restaurants in London on Sept. 12. Photographer: Peter Summers/Getty Images Boris Johnson will announce new restrictions on bars and restaurants and appeal directly to Britons for their support as he seeks to halt a surge in coronavirus cases. Hospitality venues across England will have to close by 10 p.m. and will be limited to table service only in measures to be announced Tuesday, the prime minister’s office said. Johnson will consult with senior officials and the leaders of Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales at a meeting of the so-called Cobra emergency committee in the morning before briefing Parliament on further curbs. He will then make a broadcast to the nation at 8 p.m. Watch: The U.K. is on high alert for a new surge in coronavirus cases. (Source: Bloomberg) Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.6% as compared with the same time Sunday to 6.83 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase matched the average daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.1% to 199,660. A healthcare worker speaks to a motorist at a drive-up Covid-19 testing site in Los Angeles on Sept. 18. Photographer: Kevin Winter/Getty Images Greece reported 453 cases, a new daily high since the beginning of the pandemic in March. But 184 of the cases are refugees that tested positive on the island of Lesvos. After a fire broke out in the refugee camp of Moria, they were allocated to a new camp and the government is testing each one who enters the new establishment. So far, more than 7,000 refugees have been tested and 243 were found positive. The country’s total positive cases is now 15,595. The greater Athens area has the most cases at the moment and the government has taken further restrictive measures to contain the spread of the virus. It hasn’t excluded the possibility of a regional lockdown if things get worst. A medic waits for travelers at a Covid-19 testing area inside Athens International Airport, Sept. 17. Photographer: Yorgos Karahalis/Bloomberg An $18 billion initiative to deploy a Covid-19 vaccine around the world is moving into the next phase, with 156 countries and regions joining the program. The initial goal of the campaign, called Covax, is to have 2 billion vaccine doses available by the end of 2021. While China wasn’t among the countries having made a commitment in a statement released Monday, more agreements will be announced later. The program is led by the World Health Organization; Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. The U.S. has said it won’t participate in the program. Watch: Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Vice Dean Joshua Sharfstein discusses the rate of coronavirus infections and public confidence in a Covid-19 vaccine. (Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Robert Fenner, Susan Warren, Mark Gurman, Natnicha Chuwiruch, and Pradeep Kurup