U.S. stocks jumped after four weeks of declines and European shares added the most in three months in broad gains for equities. The dollar weakened. Banks, automakers and industrial companies led the S&P 500 Index toward its biggest gain in two weeks as investors found buying opportunities after the gauge fell to its lowest since July last week. At one point, 15 stocks were higher on the benchmark for every one that fell. HSBC Holdings Plc added almost 9% after its biggest shareholder raised its stake, while an index of lenders rose the most in a month. Signs that U.S. politicians are moving toward new fiscal stimulus has been a boon to stocks in recent days, while the Federal Reserve continues to provide liquidity. Stronger economic data from China also lifted investor sentiment, with data over the weekend showing profits at Chinese industrial companies grew for a fourth consecutive month in August. “The Fed is making it almost impossible for you to get too bearish,” said John Porter, head of equities at Mellon Investments. “The market is getting more comfortable with the realization that Covid is going to be with us for a while now.” The advance in global stocks was broad, instead of tech-focused, a sign that optimism about global growth and the end of pandemic lockdowns is returning. Still, equities remain on course for the first month of losses since March after investors sold overheated stocks and fears about a resurgence in the virus weighed on airlines and retailers. “September certainly continued to challenge the intestinal fortitude of the bulls, but charting the S&P 500 from March shows the bull market remains very much intact,” said Chris Larkin, managing director of trading and investment product at E*Trade Financial Corp. Lale Topcuoglu, senior fund manager at Johcm Inc., says the Federal Reserve is predominantly backstopping investment grade debt which opened the refinancing gates for higher quality. (Source: Bloomberg) In emerging markets, the Turkish lira and Russian ruble weakened as fighting between Armenia and Azerbaijan curbed appetite for the currencies of their bigger neighbors. Traders Get Fresh Reason to Sell Lira, Ruble as Neighbors Fight Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Namitha Jagadeesh, Adam Haigh, Andreea Papuc, and Anchalee Worrachate