Moviegoers at the Bengies Drive-In outside of Baltimore, which boasts the largest screen on the East Coast. It reopened in June this summer to accommodate movie-hungry crowds. Photographer: PAUL J.RICHARDS/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: PAUL J.RICHARDS/AFP via Getty Images As the sun sets, the excitement rises. More than 200 cars are gathered at the West Wind Drive-In in Solano, California, about a 30-minute drive from Berkeley. Some folks are watching from inside their cars; others are huddled together in pickup truck beds. I put on my mask, roll down my window and call out across the 10-foot gap that separates our car from our neighbor. “What was the radio channel again?” “104.5,” the driver shouts back. I spin the dial as the screen lights up. Tonight’s movie — E.T. — is about to start. This is all new to me; like many Americans, I missed the golden age of the American drive-in. The first “park-in theater” opened in New Jersey in 1933, but the idea didn’t really take off until the postwar years. By 1950, more than 2,000 drive-ins were in operation, and in 1958, the industry’s peak, more than 4,000 lined the highways of an increasingly suburbanized and car-centric nation. As of October 2019, only 305 drive-ins remain in the U.S., according to the United Drive-In Theatre Owner Association (UDITOA). But during the coronavirus pandemic, the promise of a shared entertainment experience from the comfort of a controlled, socially distant environment has fueled a drive-in resurgence — and movies are only part of the offering. With most live events on pause, the drive-in movie theater became Covid Summer’s go-to venue. In April, Doc’s Drive-In Theatre in Buda, Texas, welcomed 85 cars for a socially distanced wedding live-streamed on the theater’s two screens. Churches resumed drive-in services, reviving a practice rooted in the 1950s. In cities around the world, idled shopping malls and empty parking lots hosted ad-hoc screens for pop-up community movies, while existing drive-ins expanded their offerings to include concerts, art shows and stand-up comedy performances. Miami’s Hard Rock Stadium turned its football field into a giant outdoor cinema. And in July, a boat-in movie theater even popped up in Key Biscayne, Florida, complete with a 60-foot floating screen. “In your protective bubble, you look out of your car and you see other humans,” says media historian Ross Melnick, an assistant professor in the Film and Media Studies Department at UC Santa Barbara. “For most people, there’s something heartwarming and affirming about seeing other humans who are all there for one thing, because they want to be entertained.” But it takes more than just a screen and barren stretch of pavement to make a great drive-in. In her architectural study of drive-ins, From Ticket Booth to Screen Tower, Shannon Bell writes that “the drive-in was a model of efficiency in design, an interwoven group of architectural elements responding to a variety of commercial, social and aesthetic demands.” Key among those demands is space: A 500-car drive-in requires about 10 to 14 acres. You also need low ambient light and graded ramps for proper sightlines. According to UDITOA, there is a mathematical formula that dictates the ideal angle and distance between the screen and projection booth. Architect Jack Vogel — “the Frank Lloyd Wright of drive-ins” — built more than 300 drive-ins throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast in the 1950s, including the Bengies Drive-In outside of Baltimore, which is still in operation. As a genre of roadside architecture, the drive-in is an artifact of the golden age of motorized living, one that blends the thrill of going out with the comfort of staying in. “At the drive-in, every car was an enclave within which separate social actions, distinct from the collective experience, might occur,” media scholar and historian Erica Robles-Anderson argues. Much as the adoption of the television set carved out a new social space in the 1950s home, Anderson writes that “drive-ins were important spatial intermediaries in the postwar era that helped facilitate the shift from public to domestic leisure by offering privatized access to collective life.” Often sited on the periphery of the city, where land was cheap and nearby suburbs offered an audience of car-owning households, drive-ins proved vulnerable to development, and many owners sold off the space-hungry facilities when land costs grew. In-home entertainment options improved during the 1960s and ’70s, taking another bite out of revenues. In much of the country, seasonal operations render drive-ins useless in the winter months. To bridge the gap, some drive-ins became year-round flea markets. Others were razed to make way for big-box stores, shopping centers and indoor cineplexes. Among the few survivors remaining, profit can be elusive. But the continuing appeal of the model was made clear during coronavirus lockdowns, when movie-starved audiences clamored to make drive-ins among the first businesses to reopen. In Coldwater, Michigan, the owners of the 1,000-car Capri Drive-In didn’t want to wait for the state’s stay-at-home orders to relax in May before she started welcoming audiences. ‘I defied the governor,’ says co-owner Susan Magocs, whose neon-lit marquee read: Want to Open. Can’t. Call Gov. “I’m not proud of the fact we did that, but the reward was the support of the people.” “You have to make the drive-in something that people want, versus something that people need.” The Capri is now legally open, showing mostly revivals and a small number of new releases. (Now showing: Bill & Ted Face the Music.) Showing older movies helps keep costs down, and regardless, the movie selection appears to be secondary these days; what matters is the experience. “We service a 150-mile radius. It’s an event, a bucket list kind of thing,” says Magocs. “It’s such a rarity." It’s not clear yet whether the lingering pandemic will spur a true drive-in rebirth, but it has at least succeeded in giving several theaters a temporary new lease on life: Some drive-ins reopened after having closed permanently last year. The Goleta West Wind Drive-In in California, which had officially closed its gates last April, made a coronavirus comeback this summer with a Harry Potter double feature on Memorial Day. Will the drive-ins’ fortunes last after indoor theaters reopen and live entertainment resumes? “If drive-in theaters in the U.S. do a good job, they can create a whole new generation of moviegoers,” says UC Santa Barbara’s Melnick. To do that, “you have to make the drive-in something that people want, versus something that people need.” He says that owners should invest in top-notch projection systems, unique programming and high-quality food offerings to improve the experience for first-timers. Drive-ins should also take advantage of their regional identity to connect with patrons, who might have to drive long distances to get there. This readiness to drive two hours there and back just to see a movie that’s probably streaming on Netflix speaks to the enduring pull of the experience. “The drive-in is a space unlike many others,” says Melnick. “By parking, you’re placing your car within a space, and you’re curating your own vista by a variety of different factors.” That reminds me of William H. Whyte’s The Social Life of Small Urban Places, in which the American urbanist posits that people are drawn to public spaces that give them some autonomy, as with movable chairs. While the drive-in might not be a truly public space, it does offer a welcome hybrid of public and private life. As Melnick says, “Weirdly, it’s got a lot of independence, even if it’s got a lot of co-dependence.”