Photographer: Matthew Hatcher/Bloomberg Photographer: Matthew Hatcher/Bloomberg Stocks dropped and U.S. equity-index futures sank after an acrimonious American presidential debate highlighted the risk of a contested vote in November. A gauge of the dollar held steady. S&P 500 futures fell as much as 1.3% in the hours after the chaotic sparring between Donald Trump and Democratic hopeful Joe Biden during which the president suggested vote-by-mail could be rife with fraud. The Stoxx Europe 600 opened lower, and most Asian markets slipped. “What we’ve seen from the debate is the reinforcement that if Biden wins, Trump is not going to accept that,” said Chris Weston, head of research at Pepperstone Group Ltd. in Melbourne. “People positioned for an ugly contest afterwards have been validated.” Traders were also recalibrating positions on the final day of this quarter. Walt Disney Co. shares fell in late trading after it said 28,000 workers will be let go in its slumping U.S. resort business, marking one of the deepest workforce reductions of the Covid-19 era. The day after the first U.S. presidential debate has mostly been positive for stocks Source: Bloomberg  Global investors are keeping an eye on news about coronavirus vaccines and on talks in Washington for a new stimulus package that’s set to reach a critical juncture this week. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin spoke Tuesday morning for 50 minutes and are set to speak again Wednesday. Earlier in Asia, China Evergrande Group’s bonds and stocks climbed after the developer took a major step toward avoiding a cash crunch. China markets are shut from Thursday for a week of holidays. South Korea is closed Wednesday. Equity gauges in Japan and Australia declined by at least 2%. Frank Luntz, founder of Luntz Global, talks about the first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Kriti Gupta, Eric Lam, and Gregor Stuart Hunter