Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Global deaths from the coronavirus exceeded 950,000, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. New infections in Australia’s Victoria state fell to the lowest level in almost three months, signaling the region could be on track to begin reopening its major city, Melbourne, later this month. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reversed a policy and recommended people should get a Covid-19 test if they come in contact with an infected person, even if they don’t have symptoms. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s main rival tested positive for the virus. France racked up more than 13,000 new cases in a day, the most since a national lockdown ended in May, while Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire tested positive. Mayor Sadiq Khan signaled that London is headed for tighter restrictions. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Singapore Airlines Ltd. pilots have agreed to further pay cuts to remain in employment, the carrier said Saturday. The city-state’s flag carrier and the Air Line Pilots Association - Singapore reached the agreement Friday and the company will implement the measures for all remaining pilots in Singapore Airlines and SilkAir with effect from Oct. 1. The deal will help to mitigate further job losses for pilots, it said. Under the agreement, salaries for re-employed captains and first officers will be cut by 60% and 50% respectively, the Straits Times reported, citing an internal circular. Justin Trudeau’s main rival tested positive for coronavirus five days before the Canadian prime minister is scheduled to unveil a new agenda that could trigger an election. Conservative leader Erin O’Toole received the diagnosis late Friday, according to a statement from the party. A staff member he traveled with contracted Covid-19 earlier in the week. The number of new virus cases in Victoria, Australia’s worst-hit state, fell to the lowest level in almost three months, signaling the region could be on track to begin reopening Melbourne later this month. The state recorded 21 new cases in the last 24 hours and seven more deaths, Victoria’s Department of Health and Human Services said in a Twitter post on Saturday morning. That’s the fewest new infections since June. Read more here. Thailand’s lower house of parliament approved the government’s 3.28 trillion baht ($105 billion) budget, clearing a key hurdle in Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha’s efforts to boost spending to revive the pandemic-battered economy. Most of the budget will be used to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak, which has put Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy on track for its deepest annual contraction ever. The government and the central bank in April unveiled a 1.9 trillion baht stimulus package after exports and tourism slumped. Brazil added 39,797 new cases in a day, bringing the total to almost 4.5 million, according to the Health Ministry. Deaths increased by 858 to 135,793. “Stay-at-home is for weak people,” President Jair Bolsonaro said at an event in Mato Grosso state. Meanwhile, Tourism Minister Marcelo Alvaro Antonio became the ninth member of his cabinet to be infected with Covid-19. London Mayor Sadiq Khan said further restrictions will probably be needed “soon” in the British capital, where infection rates are accelerating. “The best thing for both public health and the economy is new restrictions imposed early, rather than a full lockdown when it’s too late — but the government must urgently ensure there is a fully functioning testing system,” Khan said in a statement Friday evening. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.7% as compared with the same time Thursday to 6.7 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase compares with an average daily increase of 0.6% over the past week. Deaths reached 198,114. Argentina’s government extended a nationwide lockdown until Oct. 11, with provincial authorities determining the specific measures, according to a video message from President Alberto Fernandez’s press office. President Donald Trump said his administration expects to be able to vaccinate every American against the novel coronavirus by April. “We’ll have manufactured at least 100 million vaccine doses” by the end of the year, Trump said at a news conference on Friday. “We expect to have enough vaccines for every American by April.” Trump’s timetable is more ambitious than those of drug industry executives and health officials including Anthony Fauci and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Robert Redfield, who have said most Americans shouldn’t expect a shot before mid-2021. French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, he said on Twitter. Le Maire said he has no symptoms, and will continue to exercise his ministerial duties while quarantining for seven days. Anyone who has spent 15 minutes or more within six feet of a person infected with Covid-19 should be tested, the CDC said in new guidelines. And even if the test is negative, an exposed person should still self-quarantine for 14 days. Those who are in an area of high virus transmission and go to a large gathering with spotty public-health precautions may be advised to get a test by their doctor or a public-health official. People who don’t have symptoms and aren’t in close contact of an infected person still don’t require a screening, unless it’s recommended by a medical provider or public-health official. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he is considering whether to “go further” with national restrictions after a surge in coronavirus infections in the U.K. raised the specter of another economy-sapping lockdown. London Mayor Sadiq Khan warned restrictions could be imposed if infections aren’t slowed. With official daily cases running at levels last seen in May, the U.K.’s test-and-trace system is under strain and millions of people across the country have been placed under local restrictions to limit the spread of the disease. California reported 3,630 new virus cases, above the 14-day average of 3,396, according to the health department’s website. There have been a total of 769,831 cases in the state. The number of deaths increased by 91, below the 14-day average of 91, to 14,812. France’s daily coronavirus cases topped 13,000, the highest since the end of lockdown in May. Health officials blame the increase on social gatherings, especially among younger people, and on travelers bringing the virus back from vacation. Italy reported 1,907 new cases on Friday, the highest daily increase since May 1, compared with 1,585 the previous day. New deaths declined to 10 from 13 on the day. The number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care at hospitals declined by four to 208. That compares with a peak of more than 4,000 ICU patients in early April. Boris Johnson’s government extended coronavirus restrictions across northern England and the Midlands, as ministers refused to rule out a short national lockdown to tackle a surge in infections. Residents in parts of northwest England, the Midlands and West Yorkshire face measures including a ban on socializing with other people outside their own households, the Department of Health said on Friday. For the U.K., the so-called R rate, or how many people each new Covid-19 case infects, is as high as 1.4, the government said, indicating the spread is accelerating. — With assistance by Tom Redmond