The coronavirus pandemic has helped drive a surge in municipal trash. Many sanitation workers have had enough. Photographer: Alexi Rosenfeld/Getty Images Photographer: Alexi Rosenfeld/Getty Images Delwyn Giles knows how much “the new normal” weighs: about three tons, on average. That’s how much more residential garbage he’s picking up every day as a disposal worker with Chicagoland-based Homewood Disposal. Before the coronavirus pandemic, his truck would typically haul about 28 tons of trash each day. Now, as housebound residents churn through takeout and Amazon boxes, it’s more like 31 tons. “Vaccine or not, this isn’t going anywhere. This is going to be here for years,” said Giles, 35, who’s worked with the company for more than a decade. “It hasn’t died down — it’s continued going up.” Kyle Yonker, director of marketing at Homewood Disposal, confirms the trend. “We’re up about 30 to 40%, which has definitely put a strain on us,” he said. When millions of American consumers stopped generating trash at schools and their offices, it all went to their curbs. The extra load — fed by long-overdue decluttering projects and summertime yard cleanups — has strained the company’s workforce. “If you’re used to working 50 hours a week, you’re working closer to 55.” From Chicago to New York City, Philadelphia, and New Orleans, U.S. disposal workers are facing a daunting burden: Municipal trash collection is a job more essential than most, and it comes with additional health risks for the people who do it. Since the pandemic arrived, many sanitation workers say they haven’t been given the protective equipment and extra wages that they need to do the task safely. Several U.S. cities have seen coronavirus-related labor shortages and slowdowns, which are coming as municipal budgets are severely stressed. And as the pandemic drags on, the trash keeps piling up. The issue is threatening to escalate further in New York City: At a news briefing on Tuesday, New York governor Andrew Cuomo told reporters that he had offered to  send in support from the National Guard to help collect garbage, just two weeks after Mayor Bill de Blasio had promised to boost trash pickup following complaints from business leaders. Waste tonnage surged in the summer of 2020 Source: City of New York / Department of Sanitation Black lines represent 2019 tonnage figures by month. The stakes of municipal trash collection are higher than ever, said Robin Nagle, an anthropology professor at New York University who serves as the resident anthropologist for New York City’s department of sanitation. “Our lives depend on this work being done well,” says Nagle, who has spent much of her career studying urban waste collection and how the job affects the workers she calls “the first guardians of public health.” Before the coronavirus arrived, waste collectors already had the fifth most dangerous job in the country, according to a 2019 Bureau of Labor Statistics analysis of fatality rates. On long shifts, hoppers — who swing from the back of the truck at each house to pick up bags left on the curb — share airspace. Others work in close quarters in trash-sorting facilities. In May, the Solid Waste Association of North America, or SWANA, a nonprofit waste management advocacy group, estimated that 1,000 sanitation workers nationwide had fallen ill with the coronavirus, many of them concentrated in New York City. The long-term physical wear-and-tear caused by the greater tonnage of Covid-era trash is now magnifying the health toll on workers. “In New York City, if you’re hired today, you have a 22-year obligation before your pension kicks in,” Nagle said. “Can your body withstand the demands of the job in normal circumstances, and then in pandemic circumstances, for 22 years?” “You can’t call us essential and then not treat us like it.” In Philadelphia, for example, several sanitation workers fell ill with Covid-19 in the spring, leaving crews short-staffed and “the smell of rot” on the city’s streets. “We got 40% more trash on the ground, and 200 people less working,” said Terrill Haigler, who’s been working as a Philadelphia sanitation worker since December 2019. “It got to a point where we were almost four or five days behind.” Residents would take out their trash on a Monday, and it would sit outside until Friday. In July, Streets Commissioner Carlton Williams told the Associated Press that the city was spending $2.5 million to $3 million in extra disposal costs, as outbreaks cropped up in several yards across the city. Haigler’s close friend and colleague contracted Covid-19 and developed kidney issues; Haigler feared that he’d bring home the virus to his three children. Troubled by the lack of empathy residents had for him and his colleagues — 311 lines were clogged this summer with complaints about visible trash on the streets — Haigler started an Instagram page, @yafavtrashman, where he livestreams Q&As about the job, crowdfunds for PPE, and guides the public on how to dispose of things safely. What he really wants is the city to give the team hazard pay, or to advocate for a federal grant tailored specifically toward sanitation workers. The city has provided Haigler’s team with face shields, but he says they’re hot and bulky, and fog up with sweat. Haigler is pushing for the city to provide K95 masks, which are more breathable. “You can’t call us essential and then not treat us like it,” he said. “We’re one of the only industries that has not stopped since the beginning of Covid. We have not taken a break.” Monthly Philadelphia trash tonnage peaked this summer. Source: Philadelphia Streets Department   In some cities, those frustrations have been channeled into labor actions. Sanitation workers in Pittsburgh rallied for more protective gear in March, while in June, several Department of Public Works employees in Baltimore refused to report to work, leading to collection delays and a suspension of recycling pickup. But the most high-profile work stoppage is ongoing in New Orleans, where a group of 14 hoppers with a private trash-hauling contractor walked off the job in May. Dubbing themselves the City Waste Union, they carried signs that read “I Am a Man” — inspired by the 1,300 Memphis sanitation workers who went on strike in 1968, a foundational moment in the civil rights era. “I am only 25, but it’s obvious to me that my uncle and his co-workers are still waging the same civil rights battle 52 years later,” wrote spokesperson Daytrian Wilken, whose uncle is one of the striking hoppers. The group is asking for $150 a week in hazard pay, a $15 minimum wage, a better supply of protective equipment, and for the city to cancel their contract with the company that employs them if those demands are not met. D’Artanian Dejean, a striking hopper, says that his hours, pay ($10.25 an hour) and working conditions were difficult before the pandemic, and have only grown more brutal. “There’s always hazards, there’s always dangers,” he said. “We had to make a decision: How much of our lives are we going to risk for this company that doesn’t even care about us?” That plea echoes sanitation strikes that crippled U.S. cities in past decades. The Memphis strike followed steps taken by New York City sanitation workers who walked off the job in February 1968 to protest poor wages and hazardous conditions, leading to massive piles of trash along the streets of Manhattan. In a reversal of the current de Blasio-Cuomo dynamic, Mayor John Lindsay asked Governor Nelson Rockefeller to send in the National Guard to help dig the city out, but Rockefeller refused: “You can’t move garbage with bayonets,” he said. City unions also threatened to expand the strike to all public workers if troops were brought in. Ultimately, state mediators ended that strike soon afterward, but more came in 1975 and 1981. One lesson for city leaders from that era, says Nagle, is that not just anyone can pick up garbage. “People think this is an unskilled job,” she says. “It takes a while to learn how to do it well, keep yourself safe and do it efficiently.” There are more warnings from the past for Mayor de Blasio, who has threatened massive layoffs to city workers as the city struggles with coronavirus-related economic damage. More than 700 jobs at the department of sanitation are potentially at risk  even as waste tonnage surges to new heights across the five boroughs. “We’re going to do the best that we can do with what we got,” says Harry Nespoli, president of Teamsters Local 831 Union. “But if they cut us close to 1,000 people, the city’s going to get worse than what it is right now.”Nagle agrees that, with a health crisis raging and fears that austerity measures will tip New York City into a ‘70s-style downward spiral, this is no time to be messing with trash collection. “That’s last thing you want to do in a pandemic,” she says. “You don’t want to further jeopardize the public health of your city by cutting the workforce that’s most immediately responsible for protecting it.” — With assistance by Marie Patino