We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Hong Kong has tested about 656,000 people, almost 10% of its population, with a government program to provide tests to everyone so far finding eight new cases. South Korea reported a third straight day of new cases below 200 while New Zealand reported its first death in more than three months. Just weeks after schools began reopening, U.S. colleges are hosting raging clusters of Covid-19 infections, crises that are both medical and political while Global drugmakers are planning a public pledge to not send any Covid-19 vaccine to the Food and Drug Administration for review without extensive safety and efficacy data. The joint stance is seen as a bulwark against political pressure being applied on the FDA to get a vaccine out as soon as possible. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. About 978,000 people have registered for the Hong Kong government’s mass testing program as of 8 a.m. Saturday, Alfred Sit, secretary for innovation and technology, said in a radio show, RTHK reported. As of 8 p.m. Friday, around 656,000 people have been tested and about 284,800 samples from community tests have been processed by labs, according to a government press release on Friday. Hong Kong will extend the program at most testing centers by four days to September 11 with the program uncovering eight positive cases so far. Of the eight cases, four are discharged patients from hospitals and two are new infections. South Korea reported 168 more infections in the last 24 hours, the third straight day that the increase in cases has been below 200. The new data boosts the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 21,010, according to data from Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. Of the new local infections, 51 were in Seoul while 47 were in Gyeonggi. Two more people died as the death tally reached 333. Social distancing efforts inside a cafe in Seoul. Photographer: Ed Jiones/AFP via Getty Images Mexico reported 6,196 new Covid-19 cases cases in the country, bringing the total to 623,090, according to data released by the Health Ministry on Friday night. That represents an increase of 1% compared with the 7-day average of 0.9%, according to Bloomberg calculations. Deaths rose by 522, or 0.8%, to 66,851. The government said the occupancy rate of general hospital beds was 34% while 30% of beds with ventilators are occupied. Victoria state, the epicenter of Australia’s pandemic, reported a slowdown in new cases in the past 24 hours, a further sign that strict lockdown measures are helping to get the virus under control. There were 76 new Covid-19 infections in the country’s second-most populated state and 11 deaths, Victoria’s health department reported Saturday via Twitter, down from 81 new cases the previous day and the lowest daily tally since Aug. 31. Restrictions have been in place for almost two months. Drugmakers are planning a public pledge to not send any Covid-19 vaccine to the FDA for review without extensive safety and efficacy data, according to people familiar with the effort. The joint stance is seen as a bulwark against political pressure to get a vaccine out as soon as possible. It is likely to be announced in a multi-company statement as soon as next week. The plans, which could still change, were described by people involved in the effort on condition of anonymity. The companies involved in the discussions include Pfizer Inc., Moderna Inc., Johnson & Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Sanofi and possibly others. All are developing vaccines for Covid-19. The University of Alabama reported another 872 cases Friday, in an accelerating outbreak that has now infected 1,935 people, almost all students, the university reported. The cases were almost all on the university’s main campus in Tuscaloosa and were recorded since classes began on Aug. 19. Another 305 cases had been reported earlier in the year. Dr. Myron Pope, vice president for student life, issued a letter saying that a moratorium on in-person student events would be extended through Sept. 13. He encouraged students to “responsibly connect” with small groups of roommates and friends over the Labor Day holiday. Brazil reported another 51,194 cases, the day after it surpassed 4 million infections. The number, up from 43,773 the previous day, brings the total to 4,092,832. Another 907 deaths were reported, up slightly from 834 the day before, for a total of 125,521. Brazil has the second-highest number of cases after the U.S., although India is expected to overtake it in the next few days. Pfizer Inc. announced on Twitter that it has given 6,000 participants in its Phase 2/3 trial a second dose of its vaccine candidate. Albert Bourla, CEO of the drugmaker, said on Thursday that there are 23,000 patients enrolled in the trial and that it could have results as soon as October. Pfizer has teamed up with Germany’s BioNTech on the experimental Covid-19 vaccine. AstraZeneca Plc and Moderna Inc. Also have candidates in late-stage trials. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.7% as compared with the same time Thursday to 6.18 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase matched the past week’s average daily gain. Deaths rose by 0.5% to 187,200. France reported 8,975 new cases Friday, the sharpest daily increase recorded since the outbreak began. Cases have risen throughout August and accelerated further this week with over 7,000 a day on Wednesday and Thursday. The previous record high was 7,578 cases on March 31. The rise is at least in part due to France’s increased testing to over one million a week. Hospitalizations climbed to 4,671 from 4,643 in the last 24 hours. The number of patients in intensive care rose to 473 from 464. At the height of the outbreak in the in early April, over 7,000 patients were in intensive care one day. French authorities have urged people to respect tightened rules on wearing masks in public and particularly in closed spaces. “Wearing a mask is altruistic: it protects us by protecting others,” the health ministry said. The first doses of a vaccine against Covid-19 will probably start becoming available in the second or third quarter of next year, World Health Organization Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said at a briefing in Geneva. Countries initially won’t have enough for everyone and will need to prioritize high-risk populations. “It’s a very optimistic scenario,” she said, because there are more than 30 in clinical trials and more than nine are in the third phase of clinical tests. Typically vaccine candidates have a 1-in-10 chance of working, she added. Phase-3 tests take several months because thousands of people need to be enrolled and they get two doses; while some steps can be accelerated, others can’t. Separately, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the head of the WHO, said that the Covax program, which is studying nine vaccine candidates, is discussing adding four more and evaluating an additional nine that are in early stages of development. People who oppose vaccines should look at how they eliminated smallpox, virtually eradicated polio and helped end Ebola, he said. New York virus cases are slowly creeping up, though the state’s positivity rate remains below 1%. Of more than 93,000 tests conducted on Thursday, 0.92% were positive. The state has reported more than 800 cases for each of the last two days. The last time they topped 800 was in late July. There were 428 hospitalizations and five virus-related fatalities, Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a Friday news release. Pockets are seeing increased rates. Cuomo’s administration last week sent a SWAT team and rapid testing machines to Western New York to track a cluster, including multiple cases stemming from a food processing plant. Of the tests conducted in the region on Thursday, 1.6% were positive, according to the latest state data. The number of cases has also increased in the Mohawk Valley, which saw 1.5% of tests come back positive. New York City’s infection rate was 0.7% on Thursday, according to Cuomo’s office. Two new studies made the case recently for an alternative to the invasive Covid-19 tests that require collecting a sample from deep in the nose. Saliva samples, both studies found, were nearly as reliable and far less of a hassle. Anne Wyllie, a researcher at the Yale School of Public Health who was the lead author of one of the studies, said she hopes the work helps quell some of saliva’s detractors. “There’s been a lot of debate about saliva versus swab,” she said. “I think some of it is not entirely justified.” Italy reported 1,733 new coronavirus cases Friday, the most since May 2, according to data on the Health Ministry website. The increase occurred as daily tests rose to a record 113,085. There were 11 additional deaths reported since Thursday. Total cases reported since late February rose to 274,644 While numbers remain distant from the peak of 6,557 new infections in a day on March 21, they’ve been inching up all week. A total 35,518 people have died from coronavirus in Italy. The U.K. reported 1,940 new cases, the highest since May 30. The total now stands at 342,351. The reproductive rate, or R number, stands between 0.9 and 1.1, the government said. The growth rate ranges from -1% to 2%. Another 10 people died in the U.K. within 28 days of testing positive, bringing the total to 41,537. New Zealand reported its first death in more than three months amid a resurgence of cases. A man in his 50s died at a hospital in Auckland, bringing total deaths from Covid to 23, according to the government website. The country had been Covid-free for more than 100 days until cases were reported in Auckland in mid-August. All of New Zealand is on Alert 2, which includes mask and social distance requirements, with additional restrictions in the Auckland region on social gatherings. The U.S. could see the number of U.S. deaths from Covid-19 rise to 410,451 by the new year, with cold weather pumping up the numbers, according to a forecast from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington’s School of Medicine. That number is the most likely scenario if the use of masks and social distancing remains at the same level as now, the institute reported. It also notes a that the virus has followed seasonal patterns similar to pneumonia. If that holds up, northern countries can anticipate more cases in the late fall and winter months, leading to added deaths. More than 186,000 people have died in the U.S. In June, the institute forecast that the country wouldn’t pass 180,000 dead until Oct. 1. European Union regulators proposed ways for governments within the 27-nation bloc to cooperate more closely over coronavirus-induced travel restrictions. The proposals, which will be subject to approval by member states, include common criteria and thresholds for member countries when deciding whether to impose travel restrictions, and a joint framework for measures applied to travelers from high-risk areas. “For the many citizens who rely on frictionless travel every day, the cacophony of national rules in the EU is overwhelming. We want to simplify things,” EU Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders said on Friday in Brussels. Russia’s proposed Covid-19 vaccine induced an antibody response in all participants in early trials and found no serious adverse effects, according to the first peer-reviewed data on studies of the controversial project. The vaccine also produced a response in T-cells -- a type of white blood cell that helps the immune system destroy infection -- according to preliminary results from phase 1 and 2 trials that were published Friday in the Lancet medical journal. Russian officials had previously made broadly similar claims about the shot, prior to review by outside experts. — With assistance by Robert Fenner, Kara Wetzel, Stacie Sherman, Flynn McRoberts, Shruti Singh, Jonathan Levin, Reg Gale, Stephen Merelman, Sara Marley, Janet Lorin, Alessandra Migliaccio, Marco Bertacche, Rodrigo Orihuela, Thomas Mulier, William Horobin, Ruben Munsterman, Susan Warren, Robert Langreth, James Thornhill, and Apple Lam