Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. AstraZeneca Plc paused its late-stage study after a person participating in the trial became ill. Shares of Chinese vaccine makers plunged in Asian trading. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is banning social gatherings of more than six people in England, while Ireland reported the most new cases since May. Los Angeles has banned traditional Halloween activities, such as trick or treating and haunted houses. There is more evidence of Europe’s virus resurgence with Germany’s infection rate staying above a key threshold. India’s death rate edges higher. U.S. states hit hard by a summer surge in cases showed improving trends, with Texas, Arizona, Florida and California reporting the fewest daily infections in months. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. India’s fatalities from coronavirus infections are creeping up after the country surpassed Brazil to have the world’s second-highest number of cases. India has reported more than 1,000 deaths from Covid-19 for eight consecutive days. That’s higher than the daily death toll in other hard-hit nations like the U.S., Brazil, Russia and Mexico. With almost 74,000 virus-related deaths, India has the world’s third-most people killed by the virus. AstraZeneca Plc stopped giving shots of its experimental coronavirus vaccine after a person participating in one of the company’s studies got sick, a potential adverse reaction that could delay or derail efforts to speed an immunization against Covid-19 for the world. The pause stemmed from a standard review of the company’s vaccine trials after one person developed an unexplained illness, AstraZeneca said in a statement. The move was intended to give researchers time to examine safety data while maintaining the integrity of the trials, the company said. The vaccine, which AstraZeneca is developing with researchers from the University of Oxford, has been viewed as one of the leading candidates to reach the market. The decision to tap the brakes jolted investors, sending AstraZeneca’s U.S.-traded shares down sharply, while boosting the stocks of some rivals developing different potential Covid-19 shots. Moderna Inc. fell as much as 13% on Tuesday after regulators and top drugmakers promised the Covid-19 vaccine approval process would be immune from political pressure and the biotech company drew its first sell rating since going public in 2018. Earlier, frontrunners in the race for a Covid-19 vaccine pledged to avoid shortcuts on science as they face pressure to rush a shot to market. The number of new coronavirus cases hovered around 1,300, while the infection rate remained over the key threshold of 1.0 for the fourth day. There were 1,331 new cases in the 24 hours through Wednesday morning, bringing the total to 254,957, according to data from from Johns Hopkins University. That compares with 1,898 the previous day, the highest increase since April, and with daily growth rates of above 1,000 throughout the past week. Fatalities increased by five to 9,336. The reproduction factor of the virus, known as R-naught, fell to 1.1 on Tuesday from 1.12 the day before, according to the latest estimate from the Robert Koch Institute. “The proportion of cases with a probable place of infection abroad has increased significantly in recent weeks but has been declining again since the school vacation ended in most federal states,” the institute wrote in their report. Offices in central London are set to decline in value by as much as 10% this year as the pandemic drives down demand for space. Short-term demand for offices has slumped, with many companies’ employees still working from home after lockdown, according to Simon Wallace, co-head of alternatives research and strategy at DWS Group. That’s likely to push rents in the capital’s most expensive areas down by about 8%, denting investor returns. Philippines is moving toward further economic re-opening as it shifts from total avoidance to management of coronavirus risks, acting Economic Planning chief Karl Chua says at live-streamed Senate budget hearing. Economic managers propose further reviving public transport to help people go back to work. The government is changing its policy stance to balance saving lives from Covid-19 and averting hunger. All social gatherings of more than six people will be banned in England, under new limits to be announced by Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday, as coronavirus cases grow. A couple of diners eat at a restaurant during a quiet night in central London on Sept. 8. Photographer: Yui Mok/PA Images via Getty Images At a press conference, the premier will confirm that police will have new powers to disperse and fine any group larger than six people meeting indoors or outdoors from Sept. 14. That marks a significant tightening of the current rules, under which police can break up gatherings of more than 30. There will be exceptions for people grouping for work, weddings and funerals, and for organized sports, but parties in pubs and restaurants, and gatherings in public spaces will all be hit by the new limits. Los Angeles is not allowing door-to-door trick or treating and other traditional Halloween gatherings this year to curb the spread of the virus, the city’s department of public health said in a statement. So-called trunk-or-treating events -- where children go from car to car instead of door to door to receive treats -- have also been banned as have gatherings with non-household members even outdoors. Carnivals, festivals, live entertainment and haunted house attractions also won’t be allowed. Online parties and car parades that follow health guidelines as well as decorating homes and yards are allowed, according to the statement. California reported its lowest single-day tally since mid-June, though Governor Gavin Newsom cautioned that Labor Day weekend gatherings may cause a setback. South Korea added 156 more coronavirus cases in 24 hours versus 136 a day earlier, according to data from Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. The number of confirmed cases remained below 200 for a seventh day. Total number of confirmed cases rose to 21,588. The total death tally rose by three to 344. The trend in the number of confirmed cases has continued to fall and has been “stably lowered” to around the 100 people level, Sohn Young-rae, Health Ministry official said at a briefing. The impact of continued stricter social distancing rules will become more visible next week, Sohn said. A further extension of stricter measures may not be needed if citizens cooperate with social-distancing rules for the next five days and the virus is contained, Sohn said. Argentina reported a daily record of 12,027 Covid-19 cases for a national tally of 500,034, according to the government’s evening report. It reported 228 more deaths, putting total at 10,405. Mexico reported 5,351 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 642,860, according to data released by the Health Ministry Tuesday night. Deaths rose 703 to 68,484. Cases rose 0.8% in line with seven-day average. Deaths rose 1% versus the seven-day average of 0.7%, according to Bloomberg calculations. Singapore is considering suggestions from nightlife and entertainment operators to help some in the industry resume business amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Business Times reported, citing a letter from the Singapore Nightlife Business Association sent to members. Ideas being considered include an extension of drinking hours from the current 10:30 p.m. to midnight. An empty outdoor bar terrace at Clarke Quay in Singapore. Photographer: Lauryn Ishak/Bloomberg Meanwhile, all planes flying in and out of the island-state will be required to block an area to place crew members or passengers that are unwell with fever or show symptoms of coronavirus during flight, Straits Times says, citing the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore. The Biden campaign worked to sow doubt about the Trump administration’s ability to keep politics out of a coronavirus vaccine rollout, saying the president routinely overstates progress and likes to punish political opponents. “The concern they have is that Donald Trump could end up moving this process in a way that undermines the credibility of the vaccine and that will set our country back,” Jake Sullivan, a senior policy adviser to the campaign, said on a call with reporters about the concerns of Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his running mate, Kamala Harris. Campaign advisers asked the administration to release the criteria that will be used to ensure a Covid-19 vaccine meets the scientific standard of safety and efficacy, who will assure that decisions are driven by science and not politics and what the plan will be to allocate and distribute the vaccine “cost-free, safely, equitably and without politics.” Watch: New York Governor Andrew Cuomo says colleges with more than 100 Covid-19 cases may have to switch to remote learning. (Source: ABC/Bloomberg) Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.4% as compared with the same time Monday to 6.32 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was lower than the average daily gain of 0.6% over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.2% to 189,456. People gather on the beach on the second day of the Labor Day weekend in Santa Monica, on Sept. 6. Photographer: Apu Gomes/AFP via Getty Images — With assistance by Mark Schoifet, and Ari Altstedter