A passenger aircraft takes off from Madrid Barajas airport in Madrid. Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Europe’s air-travel rebound has abruptly shifted into reverse, according to the agency that oversees the region’s skies, which warned that a failure to coordinate between countries is undermining passenger confidence and hurting a vital industry. The tally of flights will be about 6 million or 55% lower than in 2019, Brussels-based Eurocontrol said in a statement Monday, down a further 1 million on the number it forecast in April when global fleets were largely grounded. “We’re going backwards now and it’s really worrying for the entire industry,” Eurocontrol Director-General Eamonn Brennan said in the release, blaming a lack of cooperation over the resumption of flights for sowing confusion and putting people off booking. Forecast for European flights trimmed as rebound from Covid-19 lockdowns fades Source: Eurocontrol  Airlines across Europe have seen a hoped-for surge in late summer traffic fail to materialize as the pandemic continues to flare and countries apply a hotchpotch of restrictions on travel. Eurocontrol says that after recovering to about half of the usual schedule in August, the proportion of flights operated will drop to 40% by January, versus its prior estimate for a 20% shortfall. Eurocontrol said harmonized virus testing and common assessment criteria would provide more predictability and boost demand, while continuing blanket restrictions and quarantine measures could see a further deterioration. European Union Transport Commissioner Adina Valean said separately Monday she would propose that the current waiver of use-or-lose rules governing the ownership of airport slots in the bloc be extended until March 27. The step will provide relief for airlines unable to operate the 80% of takeoff and landing positions usually required, though could further hold back traffic as faster-recovering carriers such as Wizz Air Holdings Plc are unable to source slots at busier hubs. The existing waiver was due to end on Oct. 24. — With assistance by Jonathan Stearns