Global stocks mostly stabilized Monday though investors remained on edge after the biggest two-day slide for shares since June. The dollar ticked higher and crude oil extended its recent slide. Shares dipped in Japan and China, while those in Australia and South Korea climbed. Stocks fluctuated in Hong Kong, where protests again flared up on Sunday. U.S. futures pared earlier losses, while European contracts pointed to solid gains. U.S. markets are shut Monday for a holiday after the worst week for the Nasdaq since March. Treasury futures were flat after a slide in bonds on Friday, a move which Australian debt tracked on Monday. Meanwhile, shares in SoftBank Group Corp. slumped after reports it had made massive bets on options trades linked to U.S. tech stocks. The pound ticked lower going into another round of Brexit negotiations. “Risk assets remain fragile following Thursday’s tech-led rout and volatility spike,” said Ben Emons, managing director for global macro strategy at Medley Global Advisors. “With stimulus having been key for supporting equities and such lofty valuations, its renewal will be crucial not only for the recovery, but as a driver for equities as job risks mount.” Traders are on tenterhooks as the week ramps up and they continue to chart the path for a global economy dealing with a pandemic. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell responded positively to Friday’s U.S. employment data, but reiterated his view that the economic recovery has a long road ahead. One big event later this week is the European Central Bank’s policy meeting. Meantime in China, data Monday continued to suggest a patchy recovery. Exports continued to expand in August as the country’s major trading partners gradually resumed business activities, though imports unexpectedly dropped. Elsewhere, oil was back down near $39 a barrel and gold was steady. Here are some key events coming up: Chinese regulators vow to accelerate the opening up of its capital markets and deepen reforms to attract more foreign investors. Source: Bloomberg These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Nancy Moran, and Cormac Mullen