A medic holds a Covid-19 swab at a testing site in Paris, on Sept. 21. New York state reported the most cases since May, while the U.S. pace of infections remained steady. In New York City, cases are rising as schools reopen. Pfizer Inc. Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said he’s disappointed that vaccine plans were discussed at the U.S. presidential debate “in political terms rather than scientific facts.” A London public health official said the city is at a “tipping point,” Paris may close bars and restaurants again and additional restrictions on movement were imposed in Madrid. Ireland’s cases are at the highest level since its lockdown eased. Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc unveiled plans to raise $6.5 billion to survive the Covid downturn after American Airlines Group Inc. and United Airlines Holdings Inc. said they would start laying off a combined 32,000 workers. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.6% as compared with the same time Wednesday to 7.26 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase matched the average daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose to 207,374. Brazil’s Health Surveillance Agency started the first analysis for the registration of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, according to the regulator’s website. It said it will remain committed to providing access to the vaccine as soon as possible. Bourla, who’s also Pfizer’s chairman, said it’s approaching its goal set earlier in the year to have a vaccine data ready to submit to the FDA this month, with the aim of delivering 100 million doses delivered year end. The timing of the vaccine and political pressure to move that forward were among the topics at the presidential debate Tuesday. “I was disappointed that the prevention for a deadly disease was discussed in political terms rather than scientific facts,” he said. As he approaches the timeline for his plans, “we find ourselves in the crucible of the U.S. Presidential election. In this hyper-partisan year, there are some who would like us to move more quickly and others who argue for delay. Neither of those options are acceptable to me.” New Yorkers can now use a phone application to trace whether they were in contact with someone who tested positive for the coronavirus, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Thursday. The app, called “COVID Alert NY,” uses Bluetooth technology to tell users whether they’ve been within 6 feet of a person who tested positive for a 10 minute period—long enough to contract the virus, Cuomo said on a conference call with reporters. The app will soon be online for other states including Delaware, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey, he said. “Even if you’re traveling in the metropolitan area, it will tell you if you were in contact with a person,” Cuomo said. “It’s using technology really on a level it’s never been used before.” When a person tests positive, the Department of Health will contact that person and give them a password for their phone, so that the owner of any phone that comes within 6 feet of that person’s phone will be alerted, Cuomo said. A Scottish National Party politician broke self-isolation rules to attend Parliament in London this week while waiting for the result of a coronavirus test, which later came back positive. She then breached the regulations again by taking the train home to Scotland. Margaret Ferrier, the MP for Rutherglen and Hamilton West near Glasgow, apologized “unreservedly” for her actions in a statement, saying she had contacted the police and the House of Commons authorities. Paris may have to close bars and restaurants again to stem the resurgence of the pandemic, French Health Minister Olivier Veran said. Positive tests and patients in intensive care in Paris and its close suburbs have climbed above “maximum alert” levels, he told reporters. If the data firm up, “we have no choice” other than to declare those places a maximum alert zone starting Monday, requiring bars and restaurants to close, Veran said. Across France, the country reported 13,970 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, with the weekly pace slowing for a fourth day. The seven-day rolling average, which smooths out reporting spikes, slipped to 11,467, the lowest in more than a week. Deaths linked to the virus increased by 63 to 32,019. Ireland reported the most new coronavirus cases since April 26, amid growing worry about the spread of the virus across the country. There were 442 new cases recorded Thursday, with four deaths. Authorities’ “main concern is the overall national picture” rather than specific regions, the health ministry said. The government is considering tightening limits on household visits nationwide, while extra restrictions in Dublin may continue for at least three more weeks. The government eased its original lockdown of the country in May. Separately, Ryanair said it will close bases at the country’s Cork and Shannon airports for the winter season if the Irish government doesn’t ease travel restrictions. President Trump was asked by mayors of Wisconsin cities Green Bay and La Crosse to reconsider plans for this weekend’s rallies as Covid-19 hammers the Midwestern swing state. Trump will campaign at the airports of the two cities Saturday, and local leaders fear the events will mirror others at which masks and social distancing guidelines were widely disregarded. Wisconsin has one of the highest per capita rates of daily cases in America. Green Bay Mayor Eric Genrich, a Democrat, said he had no problem with smaller campaign appearances, including the town hall-session Trump held there in June. But he said large rallies were another story. La Crosse’s Democratic Mayor Tim Kabat also called for the rally to be canceled or postponed for at least two weeks. New York state reported more than 1,300 new cases of coronavirus, the most since May, before New York City began allowing businesses to gradually reopen. Test results show positivity of 1.27%, while hospitalizations were at 612, Governor Andrew Cuomo told reporters Thursday. There were 11 virus-related fatalities Wednesday. After having been an early center of the pandemic, New York had largely quelled the crisis, but numbers are increasing again. Cases in 20 hot-spot ZIP codes are continuing to rise, with 6.5% of tests being positive, up from 5.5% the day prior, Cuomo said during a conference call. The main increases have been in Brooklyn and in Rockland County, he said. Houston-area intensive-care wards reported the lowest tally of Covid-19 patients since the pandemic began to surge in the fourth-largest US city six months ago. ICUs in the nine-county Houston metro area hosted 178 virus patients as of Wednesday night, down 3.8% from a day earlier, according to the SouthEast Texas Regional Advisory Council. The last time the census was that low was April 2. Covid-19 patients occupy 10% of the region’s intensive-care beds, according to SETRAC data. Houston hospitalization trends are moving in the opposite direction of statewide figures for overall admissions, which rose the most in three weeks in data posted on Wednesday. The state health department doesn’t break out how many of those patients were in ICUs or general beds. Italy reported 2,548 new coronavirus cases, the most since April 24, compared with the previous seven-day average of 1,761. Record daily tests at 118,236 boosted discovered infections. The regions of Veneto and Campania led, unlike earlier in the year when the region of Lombardy around Milan was the epicenter of the outbreak. Another 24 deaths were reported, compared with 19 the previous day. Patients in intensive care units rose by 11 to 291. Some regions like Lazio and Piedmont are looking at expanding containment measures such as the use of face masks outdoor, Ansa reported. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said he will seek an extension to Jan. 31 of emergency powers granted to combat the coronavirus pandemic. New York City’s average positive rate for coronavirus tests continues to climb, but remains well below the 3% threshold that would force schools to close. Mayor Bill de Blasio reported an increase in cases and hospital admissions for Covid-19, as the seven-day rolling average of positive tests increased to 1.52% from 1.46%. The daily positivity rate was 1.59%, after jumping to more than 3% earlier this week for the first time in months. The city is working to stop spread of the virus in 10 hot spots in Brooklyn and Queens, as 500,000 students citywide resume in-class learning this week. Middle schools and high schools opened today, following elementary schools that opened on Sept. 29. Monthly randomized testing will begin in every school next week, de Blasio said. In the meantime, city officials have stepped up testing and outreach in the hot spots and are seeing more mask usage, de Blasio said Thursday at a press briefing. Many of the ZIP codes have large Orthodox Jewish populations that finished their high holy days on Sept. 21, but Sukkot, a weeklong Jewish celebration, begins Oct. 2. Mitchell Katz, who heads the public hospital system, urged the communities to avoid large gatherings. There’s a “hell of a long way to go” in terms of the pandemic, Michael Ryan, Executive Director, WHO Health Emergencies Program, said at a Dublin webinar. Ryan criticized what he termed as “magical thinking and unicorn hunting” in terms of approaches to the virus. He said the virus couldn’t be eliminated, but could be controlled and economies opened if governments seriously tackled issues like contact tracing. However, he said very many countries are on the wrong path currently. The National Football League will reschedule the Pittsburgh-Tennessee game to later in the season after another Titans player and personnel member tested positive for Covid-19 Thursday, the league said in a statement. The new game date will be announced shortly, the league said, and the Titans will have no in-person activities until further notice. PepsiCo Inc. reported a stronger-than-expected summer as consumers loaded up on snacks and beverages through the coronavirus pandemic. Sales jumped 5.3% to $18.1 billion in the third quarter, PepsiCo said Thursday, topping the $17.2 billion average estimate from analysts, and the company resumed offering guidance, projecting organic revenue growth of about 4% this year. BlackRock Inc. is introducing three new active exchange-traded funds in a bet that the Covid-19 crisis will advance major structural changes to how people live and work. The funds focus on health, technology and small- to mid-size innovative companies, the firm said Thursday in a statement. BlackRock also is adding an index ETF that will invest in companies benefiting from the rise of remote work. Fewer Americans than expected registered for unemployment benefits last week, as the slow labor-market recovery grinds on while businesses contend with an increase in coronavirus cases. Initial jobless claims in regular state programs decreased by 36,000 to 837,000 in the week ended Sept. 26, Labor Department figures showed Thursday. Continuing claims, the total pool of Americans on state benefit rolls, fell to 11.8 million in the week ended Sept. 19. Economists expected initial claims to fall to 850,000 and for continuing claims of 12.2 million, according to median estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Initial jobless claims in regular state programs decreased by 36,000 to 837,000 in the week ended Sept. 26, Labor Department figures showed Thursday. (Source: Bloomberg) Turkey stopped announcing all of its coronavirus cases months ago and has instead been disclosing only the number of “patients” who test positive and show symptoms, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca acknowledged on Wednesday. His statement outraged medical groups who have accused the government of fueling the country’s outbreak. Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin ordered companies to keep at least 30% of their workers at home after a more softly-worded recommendation issued last week failed to significantly reduce travel on public transportation. Tighter restrictions may be imposed if the new measures fail to contain the current coronavirus outbreak, Sobyanin said on his blog Thursday. The Russian capital is experiencing a surge of Covid-19 infections, with the number of daily new Covid-19 cases tripling over the last two weeks to 2,424 on Thursday. Cases of coronavirus have been “steadily increasing” in recent weeks and “we are now at a tipping point in our efforts to limit the spread of the virus in the city,” Kevin Fenton, London’s regional director for Public Health England, said in an emailed statement. Fenton says Londoners “still hold the key to reducing infection rates” and urged residents to make a “continued conscious effort to consider our movements and behavior.” The Spanish government ordered additional restrictions on movement and gatherings in Madrid and possibly elsewhere to slow the spread of the coronavirus, setting up a showdown with regional authorities. The curbs will limit shops and public services to 50% of capacity and operating hours to 10 p.m., with some exceptions. Madrid officials said they would implement the restrictions, but would appeal against them. A Spanish military emergencies unit disinfect the Lope de Vega Cultural Center in Madrid, on Sept. 30. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte will seek an extension to Jan. 31 of emergency powers granted to combat the coronavirus pandemic. The situation in Italy, where a renewed spike in cases since the summer has not been as pronounced as in some neighboring countries, continues to be “critical, but under control,” Conte told reporters on Thursday. Conte said he’ll seek parliamentary approval for an extension of the powers; the Rome-based legislature has granted extensions previously. U.K. Health Secretary Matt Hancock announced new restrictions for areas in northern England to try and prevent the spread of the virus, warning that cases are “still rising.” Residents in the Liverpool region, as well as Warrington, Hartlepool and Middlesbrough will be banned from meeting other households in all settings except outdoor public spaces. Residents are also advised not to attend sporting events and only visit care homes in “exceptional circumstances”. In a statement to the House of Commons, Hancock pointed to an Imperial College London study suggesting the “R rate”, or reproduction factor, may be falling across the country. But he said infections were “highly localized” and rising in some areas. Boris Johnson says the U.K. will “not hesitate” to tighten Covid-19 rules as the government’s chief scientist warns the virus is not under control. (Source: Bloomberg) Israel posted a record 8,919 new coronavirus cases in a single day, the Health Ministry said, following a dip in numbers due to low testing over the long weekend, which included the Yom Kippur holiday. The new infections brought the total number of cases since the beginning of the pandemic to over 248,000, including more than 1,500 fatalities. The government imposed a country-wide lockdown two weeks ago, and tightened restrictions last week. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said restrictions would be eased slowly and gradually, Israel’s Ynet reported, with exit from lockdown possibly taking as long as six months to a year. Lab technicians test samples of suspected Covid-19 patients at the Hadassah Ein Kerem Hospital in Jerusalem, on Sept. 30. Photographer: Gil Cohen-Magen/AFP via Getty Images Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc laid out plans to raise as much as 5 billion pounds ($6.5 billion) in new financing, boosting the jet-engine maker’s diminishing reserves amid a collapse in demand for the planes it powers. Rolls has been one of the biggest casualties in a sector hard hit by the coronavirus crisis, with its shares down more than 80% this year and touching a 17-year low Wednesday. Rolls-Royce Chief Executive Officer Warren East — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Andrew Blackman, Alisa Odenheimer, Adam Blenford, Dara Doyle, Stacie Sherman, Marco Bertacche, Joe Carroll, Keshia Clukey, Peter Flanagan, Rudy Ruitenberg, Nathan Crooks, and Jessica Park