(This story is part of an ongoing series on the home designs that define cities. Read more here about iconic floor plans in  Beijing, Reyjavik, Hanoi, Brussels, Athens, Sydney, Singapore, London, Berlin, Amsterdam and Paris. Follow our Storythread to have future installments delivered to your inbox.) If you want to see where the average Prague resident lives, you’ll have to put in more effort than a quick trip around the city’s historic heart. Jump on a tram heading out of the Czech capital’s tourist-filled center and pre-1914 tenements soon give way to something very different: large complexes of modernist apartment blocks, their concrete often brightly painted after recent renovations, looming over greenery set back from the main road. Look closely at these apparently endless tiers of blocks that provide a rampart around the city, and you’ll see they are composed of row after row of concrete panels that give this type of building its Czech name — panelák. Thrown up quickly and in great numbers from the late 1950s to the 1980s, the Czech Republic’s paneláks are likely the stuff of nightmares to a more traditionalist architect. It’s not just their modernist monumentality, or their resemblance to housing projects that in Western Europe and North America have connotations of poverty. It’s also their association with the communist system that built them, a system with which they tend to be so closely identified it can be hard to judge them on their actual faults and merits. These homes are not nearly as bleak as that knee-jerk rejection might suggest. Providing mass, mixed-income housing for a rapidly urbanizing country, paneláks still house people from all but the upper classes in the Czech Republic without stigma, as they continue to under other names (“Plattenbau” “Panelház” “Wielka płyta”) across the former Eastern bloc. While they were not always built with durability in mind, these buildings have recently become the center of a retro-fitting trend both inside and out, one that has proved the form to be adaptable, and worthy of a place in the contemporary city. In other words, they aren’t necessarily so bad at all. Prague’s paneláks may stand in stark contrast to the city’s historic core, but they fit in with local architecture traditions more than you might assume. Interwar Czechoslovakia, the Czech Republic’s predecessor state, was a hive of modernist innovation in architecture, and many architects working on major projects after the Communists took power in 1948 had been part of the country’s aesthetic debate for some time. The move toward unadorned modernist blocks after 1948 was also somewhat gradual. From the outset, communist Czechoslovakia’s planners showed an interest in creating a more standardized, industrial form of domestic architecture. In keeping with Stalin-era aesthetics, however, what they initially produced was really a super-sized form of historicism, creating buildings heavily decked with ornament that often retained traditional forms such as the courtyard tenements. The real push for fully industrial building methods came from a speech by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev in 1954, who specifically called for the use of concrete panel construction as an efficiency measure in a bloc-wide drive for more and better housing. Despite the Soviet incentive, the housing produced to meet this call was nonetheless not fundamentally different from much being constructed in the West at the time. The internal layouts of paneláks, and their arrangement into planned, self-contained neighborhoods, had clear contemporary counterparts in Western Europe , where Sweden, France, West Germany and Britain were also building mass housing projects on a grand scale. In keeping with this exchange of ideas across the Iron Curtain, the name given to this 1950s new wave of Czech architecture and design was “Brussels Style,” after Czechoslovakian architects gained international attention for their designs at the Brussels World Fair in 1958. What was markedly different, however, was the paneláks’ delivery method, and the social aspirations behind them. The idea in Czechoslovakia was to rapidly urbanize the country through buildings that could be reproduced using the same prefabricated components, creating not just new homes but entire neighborhoods and even cities. Catering to all levels of society and allocated by need rather than ability to pay, these new quarters wouldn’t be public housing along the Western model. Because there was no private housing to counterbalance them, they were simply — well, housing. For their new tenants, these panelák homes often represented an improvement. Coming from tenements heated with coal stoves and often lacking hot water or reliable plumbing, many residents were relieved to move in. These new units offered central heating, balconies and much more light than you might have gotten in Prague’s existing courtyard buildings (akin to Berlin’s Mietkasernen). They also had more modern conveniences than the cramped cottages previously occupied by migrants from the countryside. That doesn’t mean they were ideal, or that some residents didn’t find the sheer monumentality of some developments alienating. As construction techniques developed from the late 1960s, paneláks increasingly reached up to 16 floors. And their inner walls were built with a flimsy material that was part plastic and did little to muffle sound. In small apartments, the justified feeling that neighbors could hear every word could make the apartment blocks claustrophobic, and eroded a sense of privacy. As supply lagged behind demand, the apartments often became crowded, with young married couples continuing to live with parents until a new apartment could be allocated to them (something that nonetheless continues to an extent today). Out of fashion in Czechoslovakia even before the Velvet Revolution of 1989, the buildings were derided in 1990 by dissident-writer-turned-president Václav Havel — himself the son of  a pre-communist developer of modernist housing — as “rabbit hutches” suitable only for demolition. That is not what happened next. Following the ousting of the communist government, panelák apartments were transferred to tenants’ ownership at rock-bottom prices, turning from something allotted by the state into free market goods. And, in a surprising twist, their reputation was steadily rehabilitated in the years after the division of Czechoslovakia into two states, along with the buildings themselves. Panelák apartments have appreciated in value significantly more than ones in brick buildings, according to housing researcher Martin Lux. “In the first years of transition, it seemed that the attractiveness of paneláks would significantly decrease, especially due to the low amount of living space in a typical panelák flat,” said Lux, an economist and sociologist at the Czech Academy of Sciences. “There was a lot of media discussion about the danger of prices for panelák flats decreasing and panelák housing estates becoming ghettos. Taking a national perspective, these forecasts turned out to be completely wrong.” Despite the shift to private ownership, much of this renovation funding came from the same force that built the paneláks in the first place: the state. New tenants associations partnered with the government, channeling European Union funds into improving the buildings’ insulation and repainting their concrete. This kickstarted an ongoing renovation craze. Even now, the Czech Republic has its own online magazine showing residents how, with architect-designed remodelings, they too can pimp their own panelák. Neighboring Slovakia, meanwhile, ran a 16 season soap opera called “Panelák” until 2017 — one that, setting aside the melodramatic shenanigans that befall the residents, treated a pre-fab block as an aspirational setting. With a host of exhibitions, books and research coming out on socialist-era housing, the paneláks’ reputation seems to be well on the way to coming full circle. A happy ending then? Not necessarily. Certainly, the paneláks are being rehabilitated aesthetically as an accepted part of Prague’s fabric. But in a city facing a looming housing crisis, their initial social mission is now little more than a ghost. Urbanist historian and writer Maroš Krivý welcomes their physical rehabilitation by residents, but sounds a note of skepticism: It still seems to me that the cultural and aesthetic rediscovery of the paneláks is more driven by nostalgia than new ideas for solutions to the housing crisis. Over the past decade, they have been surveyed by historians, represented in exhibitions, and photographed for coffee table books. I find it very problematic that they are seen as a form of utopia that is projected into the past, not the future. This ‘cultural’ obsession with paneláks the typology speaks to our inability today to imagine what a socialist housing of the future might actually look like. It’s not that we need new paneláks, it’s that we need to reinvent the ideas behind them. This is a point worth bearing in mind. While some places — notably  Singapore — still conduct state-sponsored home building on a grand scale, modeling ideas of affordable housing on Europe’s late 20th century statist building booms might be almost as delusional as insisting everyone can and should live in their own 18th century-style townhouse. The ongoing story of Prague’s paneláks still suggests that modernist apartments are more adaptable, and better-liked, than we might assume.