Los Angeles bike trips were up 93% in May 2019 over May 2020, according to data from fitness app Strava. Photographer: Frederic J. Brown/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Frederic J. Brown/AFP via Getty Images Coupled with the effects of a warming planet, Covid-19 has produced little good news this year. Yet the two crises did pave the way for one positive social shift: a bike boom, including in some unlikely places. New data from Strava, the fitness tracking app used by 68 million global users, shows that several U.S. cities saw significant year-over-year growth in both bike trips and cyclists in much of 2020. Among the six U.S. cities for which Strava provided data, Houston and Los Angeles, two sprawling metropolises where just .5% and 1% of the respective populations biked to work in pre-pandemic times, stand out. In Houston, the total volume of cycling trips in Houston was 138% higher in May 2020 than in May 2019. In Los Angeles, the jump was 93%. Unlike their peers, these two places also saw cycling increases in April, the first full month of widespread stay-at-home order and economic shutdowns. Yet other major cities saw more people pedaling this spring and summer. After a drop in trips in April, New York City saw a steady rise in cycling in the ensuing months, with nearly 80% year-over-year growth in trips for July. Chicago saw significant, though more modest, increases, with a 34% bump that same month. The numbers reflect all cycling trips by Strava users in these cities, for exercise and leisure as well as utility. While the app is best known as a tool for fitness enthusiasts, a spokesperson for Strava Metro, the division that provided the data, said users are increasingly logging trips to work, school, errands, health care facilities and other essential destinations. Research by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control comparing Strava users who track their bike and walking commutes on the app to U.S. Census Bureau commute data has found that Strava is a reliable indicator of how the broader population moves. On Wednesday, the company announced that a web platform that aggregates, de-identifies and analyzes Strava trips on foot or bike is now free for use by urban planners, city governments and street safety advocates who apply. Cycling experts on the ground confirmed that the new Strava numbers are consistent with data from local bike-counters and bike-share systems. In Houston, one popular trail has seen a 162% increase in trips from January to August of this year, said Susan Jaworski, an active transportation planner for the Houston-Galveston Area Council, a consortium of regional cities that helps coordinate bike networks. “I think it was the pandemic’s stay-home, stay-safe orders, where people who were remote-working had a chance to discover their bikes,” she said. “When congestion disappeared overnight, I think more folks felt comfortable exploring to get fresh air.” In that way, the data confirms  earlier reporting on pandemic-era mobility shifts, as plummeting transit use depleted bike shop inventories and drove up bike-sharing in cities such as New York and London. All six cities were also part of a national trend during Covid-19 of  “slow streets” or “safe streets,” in which governments limited vehicle access on residential right-of-ways to free up space for pedestrians, cyclists and outdoor play. In addition to surging trip volumes, wider pools of people are apparently pedaling the streets: All six cities saw year-over-year increases in the number of Strava users logging at least one bike trip in May, June and July, with the exception of Portland’s flat month in July. The data also highlights the influence that other factors such as weather can have on cycling. Record warmth in January and February 2020 may be the best explanation for why New York City, Washington, D.C., and Chicago had already seen big booms in bike trips even before the pandemic began, said Ken McLeod, the policy director at the League of American Bicyclists, a national advocacy group. Portland, which regularly appears on lists of bike-friendly cities, also saw a big uptick in bike trips in February. But unlike most other cities on this list, it saw year-over-year declines in May, June and July. Why that might be is unclear. McLeod speculated that its summer of civil unrest may have caused the city’s many recreational cyclists to “think twice” about riding inside municipal boundaries. A Strava spokesperson also noted that the annual Seattle-to-Portland bike ride was canceled in July, which may partly explain that month’s dip. Washington, D.C., also did not see the kind of surge that other cities did. That Portland and Washington, D.C., lagged behind the surges seen in other places could be explained by the fact that they were already two of the nation’s leading cycling cities, which makes substantial percentage gains harder to achieve. Strava did not provide the raw numbers that would show the absolute gains and losses in each city. “Portland, having the highest rate of bike commuting of any major American city, would have started the year with relatively high numbers of cyclists,” said Dylan Rivera, a public information officer at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. With commutes eliminated for so many of those people, cyclists are riding less often and for more recreational purposes, which would likely translate to a reduction in Strava trips for those who use the app, he said. Eli Akira Kaufman, the executive director of the L.A. County Bicycle Coalition, said the data also likely leaves out many of the essential workers he’s observed hopping on bikes instead of the bus, which could mean that the numbers are even higher than what the Strava data shows. Now his thoughts are towards the future. Cities like Houston and L.A., with their thousands of miles of car-oriented streets, have their work cut out building protected bike lanes and other infrastructure to encourage cycling even after the pandemic ends. “How do we keep the riding coming?” he said. “That’s the question now.”