People gather between Montrose Beach and Foster Beach in Chicago, Illinois, on Sept. 5. We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. U.S. coronavirus cases trended higher heading into the Labor Day weekend, which has triggered concern in President Donald Trump’s administration and among state officials about another potential surge. Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris said she wouldn’t rely solely on Trump’s word on the efficacy of a coronavirus vaccine. China said passengers arriving on flights from the U.S. will have to show a negative Covid-19 test starting Sept. 15. Mexico is ordering an extra 1.1 million death certificates after supplies ran out. Italy reported the most new cases since May 2, though Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte pledged to avoid another nationwide lockdown. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Only the U.S. has more infections Source: Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg  Three weeks after South Korea imposed the country’s strictest-yet social distancing measures, the country reported 167 new coronavirus cases, a recent low and the fourth consecutive day of fewer than 200 new infections. The rules for the greater Seoul area, where the outbreak has been most severe, curtailed services at restaurants and coffee shops and closed fitness centers and in-person cram schools. The government on Friday extended those restrictions until Sept. 13 at the earliest. Victoria state, the center of Australia’s worst coronavirus outbreak, is set to begin a gradual easing of strict lockdown measures from Sept. 14 following a decline in new cases in recent weeks. The first changes will be a lengthening of permitted outdoor exercise time to two hours, and gradual increases in the number of people that can gather together outdoors, The Australian paper reported, citing a leaked document from the state government. Premier Daniel Andrews is set to outline the state’s path out of lockdown on Sunday, but has said any changes would be made in a “steady and safe way.” Brazil reported 30,168 cases, fewer than 51,194 reported the previous day, for a total of 4,123,000. Another 682 fatalities were reported, down from the 907 reported the day before. Total deaths are 126,203. The nation has been hit hardest by the virus after the U.S., though India’s cases are expected to surpass Brazil’s in the next few days. Brazilian soldiers disinfect the Municipal Market in Brazil on Aug. 18. Photographer: Douglas Magno/AFP via Getty Images Mexico’s government had ordered 1.1 million extra death certificates after parts of the country ran out amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Deputy Health Minister Hugo Lopez Gatell said. The regions include Mexico state, which surrounds most of Mexico City, Gatell told reporters late Friday. Mexico has registered more than 66,000 coronavirus-related fatalities, putting it fourth worldwide behind the U.S., Brazil and India. A wedding in Maine last month has been traced to 147 virus cases and three deaths, CNN reported Saturday, quoting a local spokesman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cases from the wedding branched out to a nursing home and a prison, the CDC was quoted as saying. The wedding was attended by 65 people though state law has capped such indoor events at 50 people, CNN said. Maine reported 4,197 confirmed cases and 134 virus-related deaths as of Saturday, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. Kamala Harris Photographer: Stefani Reynolds/Bloomberg Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris said she wouldn’t take President Donald Trump’s word alone on the efficacy of a coronavirus vaccine. “I would not trust Donald Trump, and it would have to be a credible source of information that talks about the efficacy and the reliability of whatever he’s talking about,” Harris said in a clip released Saturday by CNN. “I will not take his word for it.” Trump tweeted a campaign ad on Saturday that says “the finish line is approaching” in the race for a Covid-19 vaccine and seeks to portray Democratic challenger Joe Biden’s stance on lockdowns as a threat to the economy. Wisconsin’s state health department blamed “a problem with reporting that has been fixed” for a record 1,498 new coronavirus cases reported on Friday. While the seven-day average daily increase in cases of 767 was high compared with early this summer, it’s less than a peak in late July, the agency said on Twitter. As cases on U.S. campuses explode, the University of Wisconsin-Madison said Friday it had ordered members of nine fraternities and sororities to quarantine in response to an unspecified number of cases among members. “Our goal is to stop any further spread of the virus among our students and the broader community,” Jake Baggott, executive director of university health services, said in a statement. California reported 4,956 new virus cases, less than the 14-day average of 5,025. The most populous U.S. state has 727,239 confirmed cases of coronavirus, according to the health department’s website, the most in the nation. The rolling 14-day average of Covid-19 test positivity declined for the fourth consecutive day to 4.8%. A medical worker wearing personal protective equipment administers a rapid Covid-19 test to a U.S Customs and Border Protection agent at San Francisco International Airport on Aug. 27. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg California reported 153 new deaths from Covid-19 on Saturday, more than the 14-day average of 118, increasing the toll to 13,643. Europe should work with African countries to ensure equitable access to an affordable Covid-19 vaccine once it’s available, Nigerian Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said. Speaking at a joint EU-Africa forum, Osinbajo urged the European Union to support the global non-profit group Gavi, the vaccine alliance, to help developing countries obtain vaccines at the same time as the rest of the world. “This is a matter that should not be taken for granted,” Osinbajo said in a statement Saturday. An employee and an undergraduate student collect a wastewater sample from a dorm sewage line to be tested for Covid-19, Aug. 31. Photographer: Cheney Orr/Bloomberg New York reported 801 cases, the third day in a row over 800 as infections slowly tick up in what had been the nation’s center for the outbreak. The rise was 0.2%, equal to the average 0.2% daily increase of the previous seven days. Two more fatalities were reported. People visit Edge sky deck at Hudson Yards as New York continues Phase 4 of re-opening, Sept .4. Photographer: Cindy Ord/Getty Images The state previously had not recorded more than 800 cases since mid-July, and Governor Andrew Cuomo has sent an emergency response team and rapid testing to Western New York to track a cluster. Students at SUNY Oneonta were sent home for the semester this week after an outbreak there. “Experts warn Labor Day could be a super spreading weekend,” Cuomo said on Twitter. “But it doesn’t have to be. Wear a mask. Don’t go to crowded parties. Wash your hands often. COVID is still out there.” "Experts warn Labor Day could be a super spreading  Weekend."But it doesn't have to be.Wear a mask. Don't go to crowded parties. Wash your hands often.COVID is still out there.https://t.co/kN3zT550wG Famines are looming in Yemen, South Sudan, northeast Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo, the first of the pandemic era, the New York Times reported, citing a letter from the top humanitarian official of the United Nations. The risk of famines in these areas had been intensified by “natural disasters, economic shocks and public-health crises, all compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic,” the official, Mark Lowcock, wrote in a letter to members of the UN Security Council. Millions of lives are endangered in the areas, the newspaper said. Two new cases of coronavirus were detected at the Moria refugee camp on the island of Lesvos, Greece’s Asylum and Migration Ministry said Saturday. The newly infected refugees lived near the tent of a 40-year-old Somali man who tested positive on Sept. 2 and who was the first case at the camp. Moria is home to 13,000 people and is the largest refugee camp by numbers in Greece. The vaccine being developed by Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline will cost less than 10 euros ($12), Sanofi France Chairman Olivier Bogillot said Saturday on France Inter radio. European and U.S. citizens will get it at the same time, he said. China will require passengers arriving on direct flights from the U.S. to provide negative Covid-19 nucleic-acid test results taken within 72 hours of the flight. Passengers traveling from the U.S. to China, and those transiting any country that the Chinese government has listed as requiring the screening results, must have negative Covid-19 results from a test done within three days of boarding at the last layover destination before arriving to China, according to a statement from the Chinese embassy. Both sets of rules will take effect Sept. 15. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Sara Marley, Alessandro Speciale, Joao Lima, Pauline Bax, Salma El Wardany, Mariajose Vera, Francois De Beaupuy, Marisa Castellani, and James Thornhill