European stocks fluctuated as falling oil prices dragged down energy shares. S&P 500 futures advanced amid speculation the broader market may be able to shrug off concern about overheated technology shares. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was little changed at the open and Nasdaq 100 futures dipped 0.1%. EasyJet Plc shares sank 6.4% after the discount airline slowed the build-up of flights following the latest U.K. curbs on international travel. Oil futures in London traded near a two-month low on concern short-term demand is weakening. Treasury yields fell, while the dollar index was little changed. In Asia, shares rose even after President Donald Trump said he intends to curb the U.S. economic relationship with China. Investors return Tuesday from the U.S. Labor Day holiday after the equity rally fizzled last week in part on doubts over positioning and stretched valuations. U.S. technology shares, which have posted stratospheric gains through the depths of the pandemic, showed signs of buckling amid reports that huge options bets were fanning their gains. “With a data vacuum in relative terms, markets will be vulnerable to headline-induced short-term swings,” said Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst for the Asia Pacific at Oanda. “Realistically, we await the return of Wall Street to see if the holiday mood leaves investors in a positive frame of mind.” Nasdaq Futures Resume Declines With Valuation Angst Lingering Meanwhile, President Trump contrasted himself with Joe Biden by threatening to punish any American companies that create jobs overseas, and to forbid those that do business in China from winning federal contracts. The Trump administration is also considering a ban on importing products containing cotton from the Xinjiang region of China, according to two U.S. officials. President Donald Trump has ramped up his anti-China rhetoric, vowing to sharply scale back U.S. economic ties with China. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: