Victoria state, the epicenter of Australia’s coronavirus outbreak, warned that a premature reopening could cause infections to spike. New infections in South Korea fell to the lowest in three weeks after the government imposed additional social-distancing measures. The U.K. government announced a 500 million-pound ($668 million) funding package for expanded Covid-19 testing. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has told states to prepare for a vaccine to be ready by Nov. 1. Singepore found three virus clusters in worker dormitories that were previously cleared, according to a media report. Thailand will likely miss a target for bond sales this fiscal year because government spending to support the economy is hurt by delays in identifying the right projects. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews, who is due to announce a roadmap for reopening the virus-hit Australian state on Sept. 6, told reporters that while the restrictions were tough, moving too fast would see the state lose its hard won gains. Andrews’s warning came even as the state, home to Melbourne, reported 113 new virus cases in the past 24 hours, down from a peak of 687 on Aug. 4. The country recorded 195 new infections for the past day, the least since Aug. 14, according to data from Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. Among the cases, 188 were locally infected, including 69 in Seoul. The money will be used for Covid-19 test trials and expanding capacity, according to the Health and Social Care Secretary. Among the details: The U.K. has carried out more than 16 million tests so far. Texas hospitals counted 4,149 virus patients as of late Tuesday, little changed from a day earlier when they dipped to the lowest since June 23, according to state health department data. There were 4,157 new cases, bringing the total since the start of the pandemic to 621,667. The state reported 189 additional deaths, bringing the cumulative tally to 12,870. But data-collection and processing snags continued to cloud the real trajectory of the pandemic in the Lone Star state. For example, the Houston Health Department posted 18 “newly-reported deaths,” even though more than 60% of those fatalities occurred in July. Earlier Wednesday, Dallas said it is relaxing some restrictions for the first time since May as the virus threat level is lowered. The move, announced Wednesday by Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins, lifts prohibitions on activities such as indoor restaurant dining and bowling now that the threat level has dropped to “orange” from “red.” The Preakness Stakes, part of U.S. horse racing’s Triple Crown, will be held in Maryland without fans on Oct. 3, the organizers said in a statement. Only essential racing personnel and horsemen will be allowed on site. The Kentucky Derby is being held this weekend, also without fans. The other Triple Crown race, the Belmont Stakes, was run in June. A nurse administers a Covid-19 test to a homeless person in East Hollywood on Aug. 18. Photographer: Genaro Molina/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.5% as compared with the same time Tuesday to 6.09 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was lower than the average daily gain of 0.7% over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.4% to 184,803. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has told states to prepare for a Covid-19 vaccine to be ready by Nov. 1 and asked them to remove obstacles that would prevent distribution sites from opening. The CDC in early August told states to assume for planning that “limited doses” of a vaccine could be available in fall. The new Aug. 27 letter, first reported by the news organization McClatchy, sets the stage for a broader rollout. A CDC spokesman confirmed the contents of the letter. The date suggests the federal government is preparing for a vaccine to become available just days before President Donald Trump stands for re-election Nov. 3, an aggressive goal that would depend on shots being tested and reviewed by then. Trump’s political future hinges on the response to the virus that has killed almost 185,000 Americans. California reported 4,255 new infections, a 0.6% increase and less than the 14-day average of 5,230 daily cases. The rate of positive tests edged down to 5.1%, the lowest since June, from 5.3% the prior day. Hospitalizations also extended their decline, falling 2% to 3,773 patients, a 10-week low. The most-populous U.S. state recorded 145 new deaths, greater than the daily average of 117 over the past two weeks, bringing its total fatalities from the virus to 13,163. Employees clean a metro train to prevent Covid-19 spread in Paris on Sept. 2. Photographer: Ludovic Marin/AFP via Getty Images France reported 7,017 Coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, raising the seven-day average increase to the highest since the outbreak began. French authorities have taken extra steps to try to contain the acceleration in recent weeks, such as making mask-wearing obligatory in public in many towns, including Paris. The country has also increased testing, with over a million carried out in the last week. Between Aug. 24 and Aug. 30, 4.3% of tests were positive. The number of hospitalizations related to Covid has risen slightly over the last week to 4,632. Another 57 people suffering from the virus were admitted to intensive care in the last 24 hours, bringing the total to 446 -- the highest since July 21. Art Basel Miami Beach, the largest contemporary art fair in the U.S., was canceled for this year, the latest blow to an already reeling industry. MCH Group, which owns the brand and earlier had to cancel editions in Hong Kong and Basel, Switzerland, blamed the pandemic in a statement Wednesday. MCH, which is partly owned by billionaire media scion James Murdoch, cited limitations and uncertainty about the staging of large-scale events, international travel restrictions and quarantine regulations. The event was to have taken place in December. Spanish Covid-19 cases detected in the past 24 hours jumped on Wednesday to 3,663, from 2,731 reported on Tuesday, the country’s Health Ministry said. Madrid, with 1,362, and the Basque Country with 524, were the two regions with the most new cases. Wednesday’s total is close to the four-month-high total of 3,829 total reported on Aug. 28. Infections have increased since mid-July, fueled by social gatherings and by teenagers and young adults failing to respect hygiene and distancing rules. Teachers line up to get tested for Covid-19 at a temporary testing point in Madrid on Sept. 2. Photographer: Pablo Blazquez Dominguez/Getty Images As evidence grows that a century-old tuberculosis vaccine can protect against respiratory infections, the Netherlands will begin testing it on thousands of frail elderly people who are at elevated risk in the coronavirus pandemic. Two new studies point to promising results for the Bacillus Calmette-Guerin shot, or BCG, against Covid-19, though research evaluating the vaccine’s direct potential against the new virus is months away from publishing results. — With assistance by Mark Schoifet