California’s worst fire season on record is set to see more devastation as a hot, dry autumn is poised to bring more destruction, blackouts and evacuations. Three of the four largest blazes in the state’s history have ignited this year, with wildfires torching an unprecedented 2.2 million acres and cutting power to hundreds of thousands of residents. It may get worse next month if tropical winds whip through the state, fanning the tinderbox. Rising temperatures and an extreme mega-drought across the Western states are fueling fires from Washington to Arizona. Nationwide, 40,883 blazes have consumed 4.6 million acres this year and, for the first time, preemptive blackouts by utilities to prevent more have spread beyond California to Oregon. Now, California is blanketed in red-flag fire warnings. The sky in San Francisco glows a dark orange as smoke particles are blasted high into the atmosphere and the city is shrouded in a dense blanket of smoke and ash.  A woman takes a photograph of the San Francisco skyline as smoke from the near-by wildfires shrouds the city in a dark orange glow. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg A vessel passes beneath the Bidwell Bar Bridge, surrounded by smoke and flames during the Bear fire, in Oroville, California, on Sept. 9. Photographer: Josh Edelson/AFP via Getty Images People stand in Alamo Square Park in central San Francisco as smoke blots out the sun, on Sept. 9. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg. Traffic travels westbound on Harrison Street as smoke hangs over the Oakland-San Francisco Bay Bridge in San Francisco, on Sept. 9. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg Flames rise above vehicles on Highway 162 as the Bear Fire burns in Oroville, California, on Sept. 9. Photographer: Noah Berger/AP Photo Smoke and fog fills the air over vehicles driving along Interstate 580 highway in Oakland, California, on Sept. 9. Photographer: Michael Short/Bloomberg Firefighters light a backfire next to pickup truck to protect it from flames from the Bear fire, in Berry Creek, Butte County, California, on Sept. 9. Photographer: Josh Edelson/AFP via Getty Images Smoke fills the air over homes in Oakland, California, U.S., on Sept. 9. Photographer: Michael Short/Bloomberg Smoke hangs over Oracle Park as the Seattle Mariners take batting practice before their baseball game against the San Francisco Giants, on Sept. 9. Photographer: Tony Avelar/AP Photo