Barcelona is among the cities that have been dramatically affected by the rise of Airbnb. Can a new data portal improve the relationship between the home-sharing company and the municipalities that host it? Photographer: Paco Freire/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images Photographer: Paco Freire/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images When startups go public, a big part of the process is opening up their books and being more transparent about their business model. With global short-term rental giant Airbnb moving towards its own IPO, the company has introduced a new product that seeks to address recent safety concerns and answer the data-sharing requests that critics have long claimed make the company a less-than-perfect partner for local leaders. The Airbnb City Portal, which launched on Wednesday as a pilot program with 15 global cities and tourism agencies, aims to provide municipal staff with more efficient access to data about listings, including whether or not they’re complying with local laws. Each city, including Buffalo, San Francisco and Seattle, will have access to a new data dashboard as well as a dedicated staffer at Airbnb. Like so many of its sharing economy and Silicon Valley peers, Airbnb has had a contentious, and evolving, relationship with municipalities and local government ever since launching (an especially fraught situation in Europe, as an EU court just ruled in favor of city regulations of the site). At a time when so many tech platforms are wrestling, often unsuccessfully, with the need to moderate the behavior of bad actors who use the site, Airbnb’s City Portal is an attempt to “productize” how the home-sharing site works with local government, says Chris Lehane, Airbnb’s senior vice president for global policy and communications. It’s a more useful framework to access information and report violations, he says. And it delivers on the platform’s long-term goals around sharing data, paying taxes and working with cities on regulation. He frames the move as part of a balancing act around the security and safety responsibilities of local governments and a private global company. Airbnb’s tool only goes as far in data-sharing as local legislation allows. The dashboard will also be useful for local tourism officials: It will provide visitor information, including city of origin and demographic information, that helps bureaus better target their advertising and marketing campaigns. Patrick Young, the planning and development director for Raleigh, North Carolina, one of the pilot cities, says the data from the portal will help shape Raleigh’s evolving short-term rental policies. “It will allow us to better understand the extent and impact of Airbnb’s operations in our community, evaluate tax revenues generated by Airbnb, and help us expand our residential services around the City’s short-term rental programs,” he said. As with Uber’s lawsuit-strewn path to becoming a public company, there’s now an even larger target on Airbnb’s back, and renewed focus on its impact on cities. The company is making efforts to improve safety and relations with regulators; for the last year, the company has been more aggressive around party houses (sites of repeated, unauthorized social events timed around one-off bookings), recently instituting a global ban on such activity and capping occupancy at 16. The new dashboard will allow city officials to see guest information, such as city of origin and economic impact, as well as host income, and as long as local regulations allow data sharing — a key caveat, as this tool only goes as far in data-sharing as legislation allows — they can also download reports which show the approximate location of units and the activity at those units, allowing cities to better enforce existing laws. If a city is looking to take action, they can search for a particular listing (or select multiple listings), select a particular reason for an action, and forward to Airbnb staff to address. The Portal will make it possible to more quickly punish hosts who violate local laws, says Lehane. It can even run analyses that pinpoint the impact Airbnb is having on the local housing market — a frequent point of controversy in cities with big tourism industries, such as Barcelona. “Cities will have the ability to map and see who’s making money, how much they’re making, and where they’re located,” Lehane says. “Democratic governments have the power to set the law and to enforce the right policies. What we learned as a platform is our obligation is to make sure cities have the ability to effectively do that.” Researchers have long used scraped data to calculate the impact Airbnb is having on specific neighborhoods. While there have been efforts by the company to be more transparent, says Davide Proserpio, a USC researcher focused on digital travel platforms, the Portal could be a tool that provides cities with much deeper insight into the site’s impact (as long as they pass laws requesting more data). “I think Airbnb is making an effort to be more transparent and this led to several partnerships with cities across the world,” says Proserpio. “There is evidence suggesting that such partnerships allowed cities to implement short-term-rentals-specific taxes that led to a substantial increase in city revenues. However, when it comes to data-sharing there is still a lot to do, and so far only a few cities were able to obtain detailed data from Airbnb.” Each city will also have a contact person available for any safety or security issues. Lehane says Airbnb wants to speed response times for the safety issues that have recently cropped up, such as booking entire homes for events to get around social distancing regulations, and eventually figure out how to do this on a global scale. “We have an obligation and responsibility to make sure this platform is working as well as possible,” he says. “We have a burden and responsibility to work with cities.” For the California city of Sacramento, the Portal helps build on an existing relationship and make enforcement much more efficient, says Tessa St. John, the city’s program manager. She says the Portal provides a “one-stop shop” to view current hosts, where they’re operating, and if they’re in compliance and have the required city license to operate. Being able to alert the company to violations on a citywide scale and have them reach out to hosts directly will be a big help, and since Airbnb controls the vast majority of the short-term rental market in the city, this will hopefully have a ripple effect throughout the industry. “It’s very difficult for us right now to catch all the Airbnbs operating without a permit,” she says. St. John says it’s not clear if the Portal would have prevented some of the safety and security incidents — including a shooting last month at a Sacramento party house that led Airbnb to sue the guest who booked the event — but direct contact, and the ability to more quickly and directly exchange data with Airbnb, will be a big advantage. “I think it speaks to a movement towards a more cooperative relationship with jurisdictions,” she says. “They’re running a business and want to protect their hosts and I understand that. Not saying we wouldn’t have loved to have this years ago, but we’re happy they’re proactively cooperating now.” Santiago Corrada, CEO of Visit Tampa Bay, a destination marketing organization, says the City Portal will allow his group to “laser-focus” its marketing and ad dollars. That’s even more important given the extensive damage to the tourism industry since the coronavirus pandemic, which knocked out the city’s meeting and convention business. “This provides us with understanding of where our hosts are, and provides us with a great deal of information on how to balance promotions for hosts and hotels,” he says. Proserpio says that cities have tried to be more aggressive around safety and security themselves. Many have started using services provided by companies such as Host Compliance that use AI to track short-term rental activities in many U.S. cities. He estimates over 200 cities are currently working with Host Compliance. Can the portal polish Airbnb’s image? It’s certainly being promoted as a tool that can help cities desperately seeking tourism dollars. According to Jan Freitag, an industry analyst at STR, the hotel industry saw an 80% decline in revenue per available room, or RevPAR in April, which has continued through the summer, traditionally the busiest time of the year (RevPAR was down 52.7% in August). Cities, already facing massive budget gaps this year, are clamoring for any way to reverse tourism revenue losses. Aran Ryan, an analyst at Tourism Economics, says the kind of data being shared via the City Portal could be very helpful, assisting cities seeking to draw in visitors during shoulder season, and helping local businesses plan ahead and set pricing. In many ways, Airbnb is in a more solid position than many expected at the beginning of the pandemic. Gross bookings in June and July were back at 2019 levels, and due to declines in urban travel, many hosts have placed their units back on the long-term rental market, reducing the pressure Airbnb activity places on rising rents and gentrification. “This reduced the pressure on the rental market in cities where long-term rental supply is already limited, so in these cities rental rates started decreasing because of the sudden increase in long-term supply,” says Proserpio. At a time when fears of the impact of over-tourism have abruptly turned into worries about under-tourism, Airbnb is trying to position itself as a responsible partner that can help struggling cities recover more quickly. “This is fairly comprehensive stuff for cities,” Lehane says. “We have more travel data than just about any platform in the world, and that’s really significant. I get excited for this because I see where this can go. Airbnb has a more powerful economic empowerment story than it's ever had.”