Boris Johnson Photographer: Chris J Ratcliffe/Getty Images Photographer: Chris J Ratcliffe/Getty Images Sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, follow us  @Brexit and subscribe to our podcast. The revolt against Boris Johnson’s plan to re-write the Brexit divorce deal gathered pace on Monday, with every living former prime minister now criticizing the move and one of the premier’s advisers quitting in protest. Johnson’s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief, Rehman Chishti, resigned saying that he couldn’t support the bill, which will be put to its first debate and vote later on Monday. David Cameron warned that breaking international law should be a “last resort,” becoming the fifth of Johnson’s living predecessors to voice concerns over the move. Read More: How Johnson’s ‘Rogue State’ Upended Brexit in Just a Week: Q&A Brexit Party Nigel Farage said he will launch campaigns against Conservative MPs who vote against Johnson’s plans. The prime minister will open the parliamentary debate on the Internal Market Bill on Monday. His spokesman, James Slack, said it is “critical” MPs pass the bill before the year-end. “We are fully committed to implementation of the Withdrawal Agreement and Northern Ireland protocol,” he told reporters. “We do also need to ensure we have a legal safety net in place to ensure the integrity of the U.K. internal market is protected.” Keir Starmer, leader of the main opposition Labour Party, won’t take part in Monday’s debate after a member of his household developed possible symptoms of Covid-19. As a precaution, Starmer will be in self-isolation while that person’s test results are awaited. He hasn’t shown symptoms himself and will be working from home. Conservative MP Rehman Chishti resigned as Boris Johnson’s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief, citing his inability to support the Internal Market Bill. “I will not be able to support the bill on a matter of principle,” Chishti, a Brexit supporter, said in a letter to the prime minister he posted on Twitter. “I feel strongly about keeping the commitments we make; if we give our word, then we must honor it.” I’ve written to the PM resigning as PM’s Special Envoy on FoRB. I can’t support Internal Market Bill in its current form, which unilaterally break UK’s legal commitments. As an MP for 10yrs & former Barrister, values of respecting rule of law & honouring one’s word are dear to me pic.twitter.com/dZq2TzX3kG Failure to reach a deal with the EU would trigger an economic hit two to three times bigger than the one ultimately caused by the coronavirus, Goldman Sachs analysts said on Monday. The uncertainty around Brexit is likely to last beyond that caused by the pandemic, causing a long and deep shock rather than the short and sharp caused by the virus. Brexit will also hurt a different set of firms than those hit the most by the pandemic, Goldman said. “We are skeptical of the argument that the sheer scale of the economic fallout from Covid-19 will obscure the economic impact from a breakdown in Brexit negotiations,” analysts including Sven Jari Stehn wrote. “A disruptive Brexit transition to a distant post-Brexit destination is likely to compound the economic impact of the coronavirus crisis.” Conservative MP Bob Neill, who has proposed an amendment to Johnson’s plan effectively giving Parliament a veto over whether the U.K. exercises the powers which would be in breach of international law, told Bloomberg Radio there’s a “good chance” it passes. “We’ve got significant and growing support for it because I think it’s a sensible compromise,” he said. “It’s reasonable for the government to play hardball, but within the rules,” he said. “Don’t come down to the level of breaking your international commitments.” Neill’s cause was boosted by the intervention of former Attorney General Geoffrey Cox, an influential Conservative backbencher, who wrote in the Times that Johnson’s approach does “unconscionable” damage to Britain’s international reputation. The main opposition Labour Party will vote against Johnson’s Brexit plan, according to a person familiar with the matter. Meanwhile Labour leader Keir Starmer told LBC Radio that while the party supports Johnson in trying to get a trade deal with the EU, it “will not go along with breaking international law.” Starmer also said he suspects Johnson’s latest move may be designed to gain leverage in the talks. “He is making a mistake reneging on a deal and that will have reputational damage,” Starmer said. Former prime minister David Cameron completed the set of living ex-leaders of the U.K. who have spoken out against Johnson’s Brexit plan, saying he has “misgivings” over the proposals. “Passing an Act of Parliament and then going on to break an international treaty obligation is the very, very last thing you should contemplate,” Cameron said in a pooled TV clip. “It should be an absolute final resort.” Cameron joins Theresa May, John Major, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown in raising concerns about Johnson’s plan. — With assistance by David Goodman, Tim Ross, and Stuart Biggs