We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Germany’s reproduction rate, which measures how fast the virus may spread, rose to the critical threshold of one. Canada reported no Covid-related deaths for the first time in six months. Italy’s financial market regulator closed its office after its chief tested positive for the coronavirus, while the U.K. government may fine people who breach self-isolation rules, according to a newspaper report. The picture was mixed in Asia. India, the latest epicenter of the pandemic, reported 97,570 new cases, another daily global record, while Japan was preparing to relax restrictions on attendance numbers for events including professional sports games. Israel was set to become the only developed country to shut down again nationwide after a botched reopening of the economy sent infections soaring. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The Philippines recorded a surge in deaths caused by Covid-19, after having to take into account 126 fatalities that had been incorrectly classified, according to data the Health Department released Saturday. The country added 4,935 new Covid cases as of 4 p.m. Saturday, bringing the total to 257,863 cases. The Manila metropolitan area accounts for about half of the country’s cases. Canada reported no new deaths from Covid-19 for the first time in six months, according to the latest data from its public health agency. The country last reported zero daily fatalities on March 15. Canada is seeing its death toll plateau after fatalities spiked above 200 on several days in April and May. The total death count stands at 9,163 as of Sept. 11, according to the government’s data. Iran’s fatalities surpassed 23,000 on Saturday with 116 additional deaths in the past 24 hours. The number of cases rose by 2,139 overnight to 399,940, the latest data by the Health Ministry showed. Iran recorded an average of 125 deaths and 2,182 new cases per day over the past seven days. The United Arab Emirates reported 1,007 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, an all-time high for the Gulf nation of almost 10 million people, where daily cases last peaked in late May. Authorities have urged residents to follow social distancing measures and the government has expanded testing. Belgium on Saturday reported 969 new coronavirus cases versus 877 the day before, bringing the total to 91,537. Deaths from the virus rose by two to 9,919, while 28 more people were hospitalized. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government is considering introducing fines for people who breach self-isolation rules as new cases surge, the Times reported on Saturday, citing an unnamed government source. The change would end the voluntary nature of people self-isolating with symptoms and bring it into line with strict quarantine rules for travelers. Separately, the Telegraph reported that the events industry is “staring into the abyss” because of the government’s new ban on gatherings of more than six people. Events organizers are seeing mass cancellations and expecting many job losses, the newspaper said. Italy’s financial-market regulator, Consob, closed its office after its head Paolo Savona tested positive for coronavirus. He is asymptomatic and working from home, according to a statement. Offices will remain closed and employees will be smart working until Sept. 18. Italy reported 1,616 new cases on Friday, compared with 1,597 the previous day and slightly higher than the previous seven-day average of 1,454. Ten deaths were reported, in line with Thursday’s numbers. While Lombardy, the original epicenter, still accounts for a large part of the infected, summer travel resulted in the region around Rome recording the highest number of hospitalized patients. Germany’s daily cases fell, while the infection rate rose to the critical threshold of one. There were 1,586 new cases in the 24 hours through Saturday morning, taking the total to 259,735, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That’s slightly less than Friday’s increase of 1,716. At the peak of the pandemic, in the spring, Germany registered almost 7,000 new infections. The reproduction number -- the average number of people infected by one person with the virus – rose to 1.0 on from 0.9 the previous day, according to the latest report from the RKI public health institute. The number has been at or above the key threshold of one for most of the past week. Hungary reported a record 916 additional cases Saturday, bringing the total so far to 11,825. Prime Minister Viktor Orban reiterated in a Facebook video Saturday that Hungary’s hospitals have enough capacity to deal with the wave of infections and that his priority is to keep the economy functioning. He again vowed stronger penalties for those breaking social distancing rules. The Czech Republic, one of Europe’s most successful in containing the initial outbreak, posted another record number of new cases on Friday, 1,447, raising the total number of people with Covid-19 to 12,260. The number of hospitalized patients remains relatively low, at 264, according to the Health Ministry. Switzerland has become the latest European country to tighten entry restrictions for people traveling from the Czech Republic, requiring a 10-day quarantine upon arrival. The Czech ratio of new coronavirus cases per 100,000 people was about six times higher than in neighboring Germany in the past seven days. India, the latest epicenter of the pandemic, reported 97,570 new cases, another daily global record, while deaths surpassed 1,000 for an 11th consecutive day. The epidemic is surging across the South Asian nation at a record pace, as it moves beyond the cities to the country’s vast hinterlands. India now has the world’s second-largest number of infections after the U.S., with a total of 4.66 million. India also has the highest death toll after U.S. and Brazil, with fatalities surpassing 77,000. U.S. health department spokesperson Michael Caputo and his aides asked for the right to read and suggest changes to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s weekly Covid-19 reports, Politico reported, citing emails and three people familiar with the matter. Communications aides from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services complained to CDC Director Robert Redfield and other officials that the agency’s reports would undermine President Donald Trump’s optimistic messaging about the pandemic, according to the report. CDC employees pushed back against changes but have increasingly agreed to allow political appointees review the virus reports, and have agreed to amend language in some cases, Politico said. Trump has come under criticism for intentionally downplaying the severity of the virus publicly after saying in an interview with journalist Bob Woodward that he knew how dangerous it was. The U.S. president has defended his comments, saying he didn’t want to cause panic or price spikes. Indonesia’s coronavirus cases rose by over 3,000 cases for a fifth consecutive day, the second time that has happened this month, with the highest daily infections reached on Thursday, official data showed. President Joko Widodo called on Jakarta’s administration to analyze the potential impact of re-imposing large-scale social distancing measures as the capital accounted for about 25% of the nation’s confirmed infections, The Jakarta Post reported Friday. “We need to calculate how pulling the emergency brake will affect people’s activities,” he was quoted as saying by the Jakarta Post. The Indonesian capital is planning to re-impose social distancing rules for two weeks from Monday, Governor Anies Baswedan was cited as saying by Kompas.com. China reported six new coronavirus cases on Friday, all of which were imported cases, according to the National Health Commission. Outstanding Covid-19 cases in the country totaled 154 as of yesterday, the commission said. South Korea confirmed 136 new cases, taking the total to 22,055. The Australian state of Victoria reported another drop in cases and deaths from the coronavirus in the past 24 hours as the regional government sticks by one of the world’s most stringent lock-downs. The Victoria State Government recorded 37 new cases and six deaths from Friday across the country’s second-most populous state, down from 43 new cases and nine deaths the day before, the department of Health and Human Services announced on Twitter Saturday. A woman walks dogs on a beach in Melbourne on Sept. 11. Photographer: William West/AFP via Getty Images The tally is the third day in a row of declines after the state reported 76 new cases on Wednesday, down from a peak of 687 on August 4. That 76 level was the same as last Saturday, which Premier Daniel Andrews said at the time was “still a significant challenge.” Japan is preparing to relax restrictions on attendance for a number of events including professional sports games, according to Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura. For professional baseball games and soccer matches, the government is considering eliminating the current restriction of no more than 5,000 attendees and replacing it with an up to 50% capacity rule, the Yomiuri reported on Saturday. A pedestrian walks past an izakaya restaurant in Tokyo on Sept. 8. Photographer: Noriko Hayashi/Bloomberg President Jair Bolsonaro suggested Brazil is beating the pandemic as the country added 43,718 cases, the third consecutive daily increase but fewer than the previous week’s high. Another 874 virus-related deaths pushed the total to more than 130,000, according to government data. “We’ve practically overcome the pandemic,” Bolsonaro said at a public event on Friday. He cited government aid programs for public health and the economy. Meanwhile, the last regions of Sao Paulo state, Brazil’s economic hub, made it to the so-called yellow phase, which allows stores to reopen. In Mexico, 5,935 new Covid-19 cases were confirmed, bringing the total to 658,299, according to data released by the country’s Health Ministry. Deaths rose by 534 to 70,183. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.8% as compared with the same time Thursday to 6.43 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was higher than the average daily gain of 0.6% over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.6% to 192,616. — With assistance by Charlie Zhu, Stacie Sherman, Kara Wetzel, Susan Warren, Flynn McRoberts, Rudy Ruitenberg, Jason Gale, Angelica LaVito, Peter Laca, Marco Bertacche, Rodrigo Orihuela, Jonathan Levin, Sophie Alexander, Nico Grant, Matthew Monks, Kurt Wagner, Tony Czuczka, Finbarr Flynn, Jeff Sutherland, Harry Brumpton, Emma Dong, Eko Listiyorini, Melissa Cheok, Ian Fisher, Andras Gergely, Carolynn Look, and Alessandra Migliaccio