Medical staff care for a Covid-19 patient at the Croix-Rousse hospital in Lyon, France. The number of hospitalizations in France has started to climb. Photographer: Jeff Pachoud/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Jeff Pachoud/AFP via Getty Images France’s daily coronavirus cases rose to the highest since the end of lockdown in May, as European infections continue a steady advance and raise the prospect of a return to the tighter restrictions that crippled activity in the second quarter. The jump in French infections of more than 10,000 on Thursday was the most eye-catching figure among increases elsewhere in Europe, with new cases in Germany gaining Friday by more than 2,000, the most since late April. Portugal on Thursday reported the most new infections in five months, with 770, while Spanish cases rose at a slower pace than the previous day but still by more than 4,500. Health officials blame the increase on social gatherings, especially among younger people, and on travelers bringing the virus back from vacation. The upward trend threatens to derail Europe’s tentative revival, should governments be forced to further tighten restrictions on movement. The Travel and Leisure Stoxx 600 Index slid more than 3% on Friday, making it the worst-performing subgroup in the broader European stock gauge. The biggest losers were airlines, with International Consolidated Airlines Group SA and EasyJet Plc down 11.6% and 8.3% respectively. Whitbread Plc, an operator of U.K. hotels and restaurants, dropped 4.4% following reports that the government is discussing limiting opening hours of hospitality businesses or closing some. Politicians are reluctant to reimpose strict lockdowns as it would likely alienate voters already fed up with more than six months of disruption to daily life, but they may be forced into action if the disease can’t be brought under control. U.K. Health Secretary Matt Hancock on Friday declined to rule out a second national lockdown and said the acceleration of cases and hospital admissions across Britain represents a “big moment.” The U.K.’s daily caseload averages more than 3,300 over the past week, putting infections at a level not seen since May. “The pandemic is back in most of our countries,” German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said before a video conference with European Union counterparts. “We have to make sure that the trend toward recovery in Europe isn’t impeded and threatened by the rising infection numbers.” Speculation swirled Friday that the Spanish government may be forced to put the Madrid region back into some kind of lockdown and possibly reimpose a state of emergency. The sharp increase in cases in the capital has triggered a political crisis in the regional administration and forced the intervention of Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez. Madrid’s deputy head of public health caused a public outcry on Wednesday when he unexpectedly announced that authorities would order selective lockdowns and limit meetings in the areas suffering the worst outbreaks. The move angered some members of the ruling coalition and prompted rumors of a no-confidence vote in the People’s Party-led government. Ireland is expected to declare that most bars in Dublin will be closed from Saturday and that travel into and out of the city will be restricted, while Austria is banning indoor gatherings of more than 10 people from Monday after bars, clubs and private parties fueled new infections. “We are noticing that we have an exponential increase,” Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said Thursday in Vienna. “We have to react now to avoid a second lockdown.” Mask wearing shoppers browse a market in Paris. Greece is ready to announce Friday a second package of measures in four days to contain the spread of the virus in the region of Attica, including the capital Athens, according to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. “It is clear that there is an issue with the coronavirus in Attica that needs to be addressed,” Mitsotakis said. Measures are likely to include limits on public gatherings and the suspension of cultural events for 14 days, as well as efforts to encourage working from home in both public and private sector. The pace of coronavirus infections in France has been steadily climbing for a month, and there were 10,593 new cases Thursday, prompting Health Minister Olivier Veran to warn that the disease “is again very active.” The government has asked local authorities to propose measures to control the spread in Lyon and Nice, which have some of the highest rates of infections. The city of Marseille on France’s Mediterranean coast has already taken “strong” steps, though it may have to take further measures such as closing bars and barring gatherings if the number of patients in intensive care there keeps rising, Veran said in Paris. France is sticking to a strategy of local measures to control the pandemic, Veran said. The government has said it wants to avoid a new nationwide lockdown, and President Emmanuel Macron said this week that citizens need to learn to live with the disease. “The virus did not become less dangerous with the summer, alas,” Veran said. — With assistance by Raymond Colitt, Dara Doyle, Daniel Schaefer, Celeste Perri, Alex Morales, and Boris Groendahl