Search and rescue personnel from the Jackson County Sheriff’s Office look for the possible remains of a missing elderly resident in a mobile home park in Ashland, Oregon, on September 11. David Ryder/Getty Images North America David Ryder/Getty Images North America When he moved to Medford, Oregon, in 2016, a rented trailer was the best that Monty Potter could afford. The $950 per month he paid for the two-bedroom mobile home didn’t leave much room for error on his wages as a grocery store supervisor, but he could manage it for himself and his two school-aged sons. Then came the Almeda fire. Starting in Ashland on September 8, flames ripped northward up the 18-mile greenway that connects a string of communities in Jackson County, all but wiping out the smallest two, Talent and Phoenix. Two people died and at least 2,350 homes were destroyed, including Potter’s, which stood near the Phoenix-Medford border. He wishes he’d known to pack a go-bag. He lost everything: his family’s belongings, his truck, his savings, even his wife’s ashes. Now, as he searches to rehouse his family, Potter is finding an already-tight housing market has become even tighter. Before it was contained, the fire wiped out at least nine mobile home and RV parks as well as several clusters of apartments and homes to seniors, working-class households and Latino immigrant families. The rentals that are available now are beyond Potter’s means. “When you lose everything, you don’t have the thousands that are required to get into these places,” Potter said. “The burden is even greater when people have lost everything.” That is the daunting reality that Oregon and its neighbors now face on a grand scale. Wildfires have burned nearly 5 million acres, killed at least 27 people, and forced hundreds of thousands to evacuate up and down the West Coast. Thousands of structures have been wrecked. The blazes ravaging several populated areas — a highly abnormal, “once in a generation” crisis for Oregon, according to Governor Kate Brown — have also magnified the region’s housing crisis. While California routinely makes national headlines for high housing costs and homelessness, fast-growing Oregon has an acute housing shortage too: Before the fires, the state fell short of housing need by an estimated 155,000 units. With the Almeda fire, that collision of crises slammed into some of Oregon’s most vulnerable people. While it’s too early to pin an exact number on the loss, Rick Harris, a longtime real estate agent in this scenic area known as the Rogue Valley, believes that “the vast majority” of low-to-moderately priced housing was destroyed in Jackson County. Supply was already scant, with a rental vacancy rate hovering at a razor-thin 1% before the wildfires and an eviction moratorium due to Covid-19. “Now the question becomes, what do we have with what’s left?” he said. There are no easy answers. Right now, about 2,000 displaced residents in the area are living in cars, tents, and trailers at the local fairgrounds, said Gary Leaming, an Oregon Department of Transportation official who’s acting as Jackson County’s public information officer for emergency operations. Others, including Potter, are spending nights at a megachurch that opened its doors. Some have resettled temporarily with family or friends around the state or taken up offers of spare rooms, backyards and garages. With the White House declaring the Oregon wildfires a “major disaster” on September 15, state, county, and local governments will soon start to work with federal officials to unlock emergency resources. But with a hurricane pounding the Southeast, wildfires burning throughout the West, and a pandemic raging in between, Sandra Spelliscy, the city manager of Talent, doesn’t expect to see any FEMA trailers anytime soon. “This is going to be a local effort, and we have to look at every option,” she said. “We’ve been fighting the slow version of this for years.” Most of those options are currently theoretical. Michelle Glass, the director of the Rogue Action Center, helped organize the grassroots advocacy group in 2017 to push back on the displacement she was seeing in the region’s small towns, which were historically an affordable choice for seniors and workers in the agriculture and service industries. A population boom fueled by out-of-state migrants, especially from California, has dialed up prices in these economically mixed communities. What little housing has been produced has been mostly geared towards higher earners. Here as throughout the West Coast, the consequences were already visible in a growing homeless population, to which the fires may be adding. “We’ve been fighting the slow version of this for years,” Glass said. “Now we’re fighting a very rapid threat along the same lines.” To keep locals sheltered in the short-term, Glass hopes to see Jackson County towns move quickly to relax rules on car camping and open land to RVs. A few industrious locals are building tiny homes and trailers, and a network for home-swapping is forming, she said. Lewis, the realtor, pointed to shipping container homes devised by a Portland builder as another way officials could get creative. If there is reason for optimism in the smoke blanketing Cascadia’s skies, it is that Oregon has lately been a fount of progressive ideas for addressing its housing woes, and it has some helpful political infrastructure to execute them. In the 1970s, a statewide land-use planning system established urban growth boundaries around all communities of a certain size, and introduced the idea that the state should have a role in land-use planning along with localities. Those rigid constraints are part of what has kept housing supply so low. But they also set the stage for the 2019 passage of House Bill 2001, which overrode single-family zoning in much of Oregon to make way for more duplexes, triplexes, accessory dwelling units, and cottages. Cities are now starting to rewrite codes to comply. “That might be one of the things that leads to a stronger recovery in Talent and Phoenix — that ability to build back different housing types with more density,” which tends to bring down costs, said Robert Parker, a community planning expert who teaches at the University of Oregon. Spelliscy said that the Talent city council is trying to make immediate accommodations, and that adjustments to zoning and building codes might ease some longer-term needs. But with construction and labor costs as high as they are, and local governments in financial peril due to the pandemic, replacing all of that affordable housing will be a major challenge. She referred to a recent New York Times/ProPublica article that projected the displacement of tens of millions of Americans in the coming decades, driven by the effects of climate change. “I think we’re on the leading edge of what that means,” she said. That is underscored by the fact that Talent and Phoenix were some of the last places Oregonians would have expected to burn. Ferocious winds have allowed fires to spread rapidly in areas that are normally much wetter, an alarming pattern that scientists link to global warming. The scale of this year’s devastation may call for a major shift in how experts define wildfire risk, said Parker, and could carry implications for where people can rebuild. It might not change where they want to rebuild, however. Potter says he wants to stay in Jackson County, and a GoFundMe page aims to help his family do so. While the prospect of recurring wildfire gives him some pause, he has lived through enough tragedy to know that risk exists everywhere. He only hopes that the community can prepare itself better for what may be down the road. Yet he is under no illusion that the thousands of others in his shoes will be coming back, too. “I hope we can all find some kind of housing, and I’d like to see the towns rebuild,” he said. “Unfortunately, I don’t think we’ll see that right now.”