Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images Japan is pressing ahead with preparations for the Tokyo Olympics to be held next year even though there is no clear sign the Covid-19 pandemic will be under control by that time. International Olympic Committee Vice President John Coates, who heads the IOC’s coordination committee for the Tokyo event, reignited the debate over whether the games would be held next summer after he told AFP they will go ahead next year regardless of the coronavirus situation. When asked on Tuesday about the possibility of another postponement or cancellation of the Olympics, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said the government was working with related parties to hold the games next year. “The government will continue to work closely with the stakeholders to hold the games in a safe way for both the athletes and spectators,” Suga told a news briefing. That line was also echoed by Masa Takaya, a spokesman for Tokyo’s organizing committee. He added that if anything comes up that might make holding the games difficult, then those matters can be discussed with the IOC and other stakeholders at that time. Japanese Olympics Minister Seiko Hashimoto said Coates has been briefed by the committee on the planned anti-virus measures and therefore his comments should reflect his confidence in being able to hold the games next year. The Olympics were scheduled to be held from July 2020 but were pushed back a year due to the pandemic. Outgoing Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said holding them next summer would mark humanity’s victory over the virus. Health experts have warned the Olympics were unlikely to happen in 2021 because the pandemic may not be contained by that time. Even if a vaccine is developed, it would take years to reach some of the world’s less developed countries, they added. Organizing committee’s chief executive, Toshiro Muto, has said that while preferable to have virus vaccines, they’re not a prerequisite to holding the games. Organizers are planning to simplify the games as well as cut costs to defray the expenses from the delayed event. A committee comprised of central and Tokyo government officials as well as members of the organizing committee was formed this month to discuss anti-virus measures around immigration, venues, staff and spectators. Olympics ‘Financially Unrewarding’ for Japan Media Sector: Citi Shares of Dentsu Group Inc., the advertising giant responsible for assembling the richest sponsorship pool in the history of the games, rose 3% on Tuesday, extending gains after rising nearly 5% on Monday following the AFP report. — With assistance by Yuki Hagiwara, and Takashi Amano