Photographer: Chandan Khanna/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Chandan Khanna/AFP via Getty Images China’s President Xi Jinping took a victory lap, in a pomp-filled awards ceremony hailing his country’s success in suppressing the coronavirus pandemic first discovered on its soil. Hong Kong said it will double the number of people allowed to gather in public and reopen sports venues beginning Friday, in the latest easing of restrictions in the Asia finance hub. President Donald Trump said at a White House briefing Monday that a vaccine may be ready in October. Meanwhile, Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said he would heed the advice of scientists about whether to get a coronavirus vaccine if one were to become available before November’s presidential election. Germany’s new virus cases increased at the fastest pace since April as its public health authority said the situation continued to be “dynamic and serious.” The Bank of England’s chief economist warned against extending a government program to retain employees during the pandemic and said that some jobs “may well not be coming back.” Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. A new experimental Covid-19 vaccine originating from the University of Oxford has begun human trials in Australia in partnership with the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. The shot was devised by SpyBiotech, a U.K. company spun out of Oxford in 2017 by researchers who worked alongside Adrian Hill and Sarah Gilbert at the university’s Jenner Institute. The institute has one of the most advancedCovid-19 shots currently in final-stage trials in partnership with AstraZeneca Plc. Russia will produce more than 300 million doses of its Sputnik V vaccine in India, Kirill Dmitriev, chief executive officer of Russian Direct Investment Fund told Bloomberg TV in an interview without giving further details. Clinical trials will begin in several countries, including India and Brazil, Mint newspaper reported Tuesday. The world’s first approved vaccine drew criticism from researchers after Russia endorsed it for use last month even before clinical trials were completed. The vaccine is being developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute, the Defense Ministry and the sovereign Russian Direct Investment Fund. Just five packaging samples of imported meat tested positive for the coronavirus amid testing of more than 500,000 samples, China’s customs said in a report. China will continue to make efforts to prevent contamination by strengthening cooperation with meat-exporting countries, according to the report. As of Sept. 7, China halted imports from 56 companies in 19 countries after local employees were infected. Germany’s new virus cases increased at the fastest pace since April as the nation’s public health authority warned that the situation continued to be “dynamic and serious.” The country registered 1,898 new infections in the 24 hours through Tuesday morning, taking the total to 253,626, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The daily gain compared with 670 on Monday and with daily growth rates of more than 1,000 in the past week. There was one fatality, lifting the overall number of deaths to 9,331. German cases have ticked up since August, but the growth rate still is a far cry from the almost 7,000 daily cases recorded at the height of the pandemic more than five months ago. The rise in new infections mirrors a trend across Europe. Thailand’s plan to reopen its tourist hotspot of Phuket to foreign visitors next month has hit a speed bump with the nation ending a 100-day streak of no local community coronavirus transmission. “The government is ready, but there are still concerns from some groups that the reopening will lead to infections,” Deputy Premier and Health Minister Anutin Charnvirakul said Tuesday. “It’s been nine months now. We have to learn to fight and live with the pandemic. We can’t be afraid of it.” The reopening plan faced more scrutiny after authorities confirmed the first local case since May 26 in a 37-year-old male inmate of a Bangkok prison with no recent history of traveling abroad. Re-opening to tourists has led to the resurgence of infection in some places like the Caribbean island of Aruba, and governments are worried about striking the wrong balance between public health and economic help. President Xi Jinping hailed China’s success in suppressing the deadly pandemic first discovered on its soil, even as confirmed infections globally raced toward the 30 million mark. In a pomp-filled ceremony in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, Xi personally conferred medals on citizens deemed to have played instrumental roles in China’s fight against the virus identified in December in Wuhan. While other nations grapple with expanding outbreaks, China hasn’t reported a domestic infection in 22 days and Xi has increasingly turned his attention to bolstering the battered economy. The proceedings glossed over criticism of Beijing’s initial response to the pandemic, which had initially appeared to threaten the Communist Party’s legitimacy before China contained the virus. Xi made no mention of the more than three weeks that passed in January between efforts to censor doctors’ first warnings of human-to-human transmission and China’s official acknowledgement of the infection risk. Hong Kong authorities said the city will double the number of people allowed to gather in public and reopen sports venues beginning Friday, in the latest easing of restrictions as coronavirus cases drop from record highs. The city will allow four people to sit at the same table in restaurants or gather in public, up from the current limit of two, Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan said in a briefing Tuesday. All indoor and outdoor sports venues will be allowed to reopen from Friday. Swimming pools will remain shut and mask-wearing requirements remain in force. An unsubstantiated claim two weeks ago by President Trump -- that the “deep state” was slowing approval of a Covid-19 vaccine -- has set off an effort by government officials and private industry to ensure the White House doesn’t interfere with a methodical, careful scientific process. Food and Drug Administration leaders are insulating the agency’s vaccine reviewers from outside political pressure by establishing safeguards that set the standard for what it will take for a vaccine to pass through the agency, said one official familiar with the planning, who asked for anonymity discussing private deliberations. They’re also making clear to FDA staff that the political noise shouldn’t influence the agency’s decisions. FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn last week sent an email to all 17,000 staff, promising that the agency would adhere to the science in a vaccine review. Indonesian President Joko Widodo formed a national team to accelerate the development of Covid-19 vaccine in a rule signed on Sept. 3, according to the Cabinet Secretariat. The team will be managed by the research and technology minister and will report directly to the president. Boris Johnson’s government imposed a 14-day quarantine for travelers arriving from seven Greek islands in a shift in its coronavirus strategy, as domestic cases of the disease continued to rise. It’s the first time London has taken a regional approach to quarantine rules and will be a blow to the islands, which are popular destinations for British holidaymakers. Transport Secretary Grant Shapps announced the measure amid mounting concern in Johnson’s administration after 2,948 further virus cases were reported Monday, on top of 2,988 on Sunday, in highs not seen since May. Mexico will participate in the Covax facility led by the World Health Organization to obtain vaccines via the global program to equitably distribute Covid-19 vaccines, according to a Foreign Ministry statement. The Foreign Ministry sent a letter dated August 31 confirming its intent to participate. The country will join via an “optional purchase” mode, through which it can purchase enough to vaccinate 20% of its population once a Covid-19 vaccine is ready. South Korea added 136 more coronavirus cases in 24 hours compared with 119 a day earlier, according to data from Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. The number of confirmed cases remained below 200 for a sixth day. The total number of confirmed cases rose to 21,432. The Japanese government is considering eliminating the cap of 5,000 people it has on event sizes as soon as Sept. 19 after determining that the coronavirus outbreak is easing, Kyodo reported, citing an unidentified official. The government will continue to seek that capacity be limited at 50%, Kyodo reported, saying a final decision will be made at a meeting on Sept. 11. The restrictions were set to be in place through the end of September. About 13,000 workers who haven’t undergone routine coronavirus testing as of Sept. 6 will be banned from returning to work to ensure the safety of other workers, the Singapore government said in a joint statement. Since August, the Ministry of Manpower, Economic Development Board, Building and Construction Authority and Health Promotion Board have been reminding employers to schedule their workers for the test before Sept. 5 deadline. Sinovac Biotech said Monday that its coronavirus vaccine candidate appeared to be safe for older people according to preliminary results from an early to mid-stage trial, Reuters reported. Immune responses triggered were slightly weaker than in younger adults. CoronaVac did not cause severe side effects in combined Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials launched in May involving 421 participants 60 and older, Sinovac’s media representative told Reuters. South Korea’s government will consider easing social distancing measures if cases fall to a “double-digit” number by this weekend, Maeil Business Newspaper says, citing its TV unit interview with Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun. Chung says he expects the number of daily virus cases to fall to a double-digit number this week, helped by stricter social distancing measures. Reed Hastings Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg Netflix co-CEO Reed Hastings said he doesn’t see any positives from working from home. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, he said he expects the five-day work week will become four days in the office while one day is virtual from home. People wearing face masks wait in line to get tested for Covid-19 in Paris, on Sept. 7. Photographer: Ludovic Marin/AFP via Getty Images France reported more than 4,000 new coronavirus infections on Monday, with the average pace of daily cases over the past seven days continuing to climb. Laboratory-confirmed cases rose by 4,203 to 328,980, bringing the increase in infections in the past week to 47,955. The seven-day rolling average of new cases has been climbing steadily for three weeks to the highest since the start of the outbreak. Irish health authorities are “monitoring with growing concern” increasing coronavirus cases in Dublin, the nation’s chief medical officer said, with the next seven days now “vital” to controlling the virus in Ireland’s capital. The warning comes two days after Ireland reported its most new cases since May. Dublin accounted for 56 of 102 new cases reported Monday. The review committee will start evaluating the WHO-coordinated international health response to Covid-19 on Sept. 8, Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a briefing. It will recommend any changes it believes are necessary, and may present an interim report in November. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus Photographer: Stefan Wermuth/Bloomberg Separately, a number of studies are showing that the antibody response lasts and stays strong for a certain number of months -- though it’s not known how long that robust immune response lasts because the pandemic has only been going on for eight months, according to Maria Van Kerkhove, the group’s technical lead officer on Covid-19. Matt Hancock Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg An additional 2,948 cases of coronavirus were recorded in the U.K. on Monday, the second day in a row that nearly 3,000 cases were added. Earlier on Monday, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the “concerning” rise in cases was a result of young people breaking social-distancing rules. U.S. President Donald Trump says “starting to get VERY high marks in our handling of the Coronavirus (China Virus), especially when compared to other countries and areas of the world,” in a Tweet. Starting to get VERY high marks in our handling of the Coronavirus (China Virus), especially when compared to other countries and areas of the world. Now the Vaccines (Plus) are coming, and fast! — With assistance by Jodi Schneider