Asian stocks drifted Tuesday as investors turned their attention to a Federal Reserve meeting for clues on monetary policy as economies recover from the pandemic. The yuan added to gains that lifted it to the highest this year. Japan’s stocks fell, while Australia and South Korea fluctuated. They opened little changed in Hong Kong and slipped in Shanghai. S&P 500 futures fluctuated after the benchmark gained Monday. The Nasdaq 100 Index broke a two-day slide. Oracle Corp. jumped over 4% on reports it beat Microsoft Corp. for the U.S. operations of TikTok. Immunomedics Inc. almost doubled after Gilead Sciences Inc. agreed to buy the cancer drugmaker for $21 billion. Positive vaccine comments from Pfizer Inc.’s CEO, which boosted Asian shares Monday, helped sentiment. The dollar and Treasuries were flat. Investors are awaiting the Fed’s policy meeting Wednesday to gauge the outlook for markets following a slide of about 2% in global stocks this month. The Fed is expected to maintain its dovish stance after earlier saying it will shift to a more relaxed approach on inflation. Central bank largesse is shoring up sentiment in the face of risks from the pandemic, the U.S. presidential election and the possibility of a no-deal Brexit. “Market volatility is returning after months of steady advances in risk assets,” BlackRock Investment Institute strategists led by Elga Bartsch said. “Valuations have risen, and we could see greater volatility as a result, especially as the U.S. election closes in.” Elsewhere, the pound slipped as Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced a rebellion in Parliament against legislation that would override key elements of the divorce treaty signed with the European Union. Here are some key events coming up: Longtime money manager Bill Gross, co-founder of Pacific Investment Management Co. (Pimco), says financial repression has been “swept under the rug” and will be the “chink in the armor” of the economy. Source: Bloomberg These are the main moves in markets: