Crime scene tape clings to a fence where in Chicago, where homicides are spiking this summer. As shootings and homicides have taken a turn for the worse this year in several major U.S. cities, some are pinning the uptick in gun violence on anti-police brutality protests that broke out in June. “It could be any number of reasons but it could be the anti-police rhetoric that’s permeating our country,” Detroit Police Chief James Craig told WDET, referring to a 30% spike in homicides in his city compared to the same period in 2019. Michigan U.S. Attorney Matthew Schneider blamed “a great amount of disrespect and hatred of police officers in our country right now.” NYPD Chief Terrence Monahan told a local news station that rising violence in New York City could be chalked up to “all the rhetoric of defund the police, get rid of the police, abolish the police.” Some media outlets have also joined the chorus of framing rising gun violence mostly in terms of the protests spurred by the May 25 police murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis. “In many of these communities, gun violence has increased in the aftermath of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis, and the widespread protests against police brutality and racial injustice that followed,” reads a TIME article. All of this might leave one with the impression that something about the protests has directly led to increases in crime. In cities where violent crime is spiking, there are myriad other reasons available for better understanding the rise in shootings, and one thing criminologists agree on is that anti-police violence protests are not solely to blame. Other glaring likely contributors stem from the many implications and consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. And in a number of cities, violent crime was already going up before this summer’s protests started. The framing of the problem matters because it mean the difference between policy solutions aimed at directing more resources to community institutions, and the current federal strategy focus, which is on bringing in more police. The Trump administration’s response has been to  insert federal police power into chaotic local circumstances, while threatening to penalize cities that dare even consider diverting resources from law enforcement to housing and economic assistance. First, a look at the crime data: While some violent crime is going up in some places, a number of other categories of crime dropped considerably since the pandemic, in defiance of certain forecasts that cities would descend in bedlam due to people being out of work and school. Crime rates have continued to fall even since protests broke out in multiple cities. “If the George Floyd protests were a factor, how come all crime isn’t up?” said University of New Haven criminal justice professor Michael Lawlor. According to “Pandemic, Social Unrest, and Crime in U.S. Cities,” a July 2020 report from the National Commission on Covid-19 and Criminal Justice that looked at 27 U.S. cities, residential burglaries fell by 20% between February and June of this year, while larceny decreased by 17% since March. The study’s lead author, University of Missouri-St. Louis criminologist Richard Rosenfeld, attributed those decreases to the quarantine. Drug offenses fell by 57%, which Rosenfeld credits to a reduction in both police and street activity. These crimes also declined since 2017, according to the analysis. As for homicides, the report found that they increased 37% in late May and June, but that this was only a “very slight” upward trend over seasonal fluctuations in past years, and it was led by a few cities: Chicago, Philadelphia and Milwaukee. Gun assaults, meanwhile, did go up this summer, but the increase was not significantly greater than the year before. In some cities that did see more significant increases in gun crimes this year, violent crime had already been rising well before the protests. In Atlanta, where a police officer killed Rayshard Brooks in early June, spurring riots, shooting incidents had been climbing in May by 27% compared to May of last year, while every other crime category saw drops in the same time period, according to the Atlanta police department’s cobra crime reports. In New York City, murder went up 23.1% in the first six months of this year compared to the same period last year, while shooting incidents increased by 46% in the same period. Rosenfeld notes in the report that this is not the first time that rising crime rates have been blamed on police protests — there were also upticks after the Ferguson and Baltimore uprisings of 2014 and 2015, which some media outlets tried to dub a “Ferguson effect.”  The idea was that after these incidents, police engaged in less proactive policing, precipitating a rise in violence. Then, as now, there is some evidence that some police in some cities did scale back back their activity after protests. But just as there was  scant empirical evidence for a “Ferguson effect” then, there is little evidence for a Minneapolis or Kenosha effect now. “It remains unclear,” writes Rosenfeld, whether Ferguson effect theories explain the previous rise in violence, “much less today’s increase. What is clear is that there is no simple connection between protests against police brutality and violent crime.” Rosenfeld actually predicted that homicide rates would jump this summer in a prior study he conducted for the philanthropy Arnold Ventures. For that study, he and criminologist Thomas Abt, a senior fellow for the Council on Criminal Justice, analyzed monthly homicide data from 2017 to 2020 across 64 cities. Comparing this year’s homicide rates to the monthly average rates of the prior three years (2017 to 2019), they found that homicides were lower during the quarantine months of April and May than years previous. However, of the 64 cities studied, Rosenfeld did find 25 cities — a “sizeable fraction” — for which homicides did rise in that time period before the protests, including Minneapolis, New York and Milwaukee. The study concludes with a “troubling observation”: That overall homicide rates would likely continue rising for the rest of 2020 (which, of course, they have so far, as was confirmed in Rosenfeld’s later report for the National Commission on Covid-19 and Criminal Justice). The Arnold Ventures study lists six reasons for why violence would continue rising, most of which are are not tied to hostile rhetoric against police: There are other conditions not mentioned in the study that could also worsen violence, such as virtual schooling experiments that fail to keep students occupied or that don’t delivering regular services like lunch programs, guidance counselors and sports. There’s also the closures of playgrounds, libraries and community centers, as the New York Times’ Emily Badger recently tweeted.  Relatedly, this has been my worry about violence this year: We closed schools, playgrounds, libraries, pools, splash pads. Scaled back summer jobs programs. Normal employment, too.We haven't given young people a thing to do. https://t.co/LZBrI1MAoC Another theory is that a surge in gun sales caused the rising gun violence. According to a July study from University of California, Riverside, by economists Bree J. Lang and Matthew Lang, background checks for firearm purchases leapt twice this year — in March, right when pandemic closures became imminent, and again in June, after the George Floyd protests. Both jumps were larger than any other gun-buying surges in recent memory, including after mass shooting tragedies such as Sandy Hook, Parkland and Las Vegas. But Lawlor says that is probably a poor explanation for the current swell in gun violence. “Most of these shootings we’re talking about are group and gang-related phenomena,” says Lawlor. “They’re not going into gun stores and buying guns with a background check. These are people who have access to firearms from the streets.” Abt says it is likely a combination of factors that led to some spikes in gun violence: reduced policing activity, reduced community trust and confidence in the police, and the many social and economic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. There’s no clear way of understanding whether one of these is a more important factor than the others, he says: “Anybody who claims they can tease all this out is not being honest with you.” The National Commission on Covid-19 and Criminal Justice report is perhaps most clear on the issue: “In our view, subduing the Covid-19 pandemic is a necessary condition for halting the rise in violence. In addition, both the rise in violence and social unrest  are likely to persist unless effective violence-reduction strategies are coupled with needed reforms to policing.”