A man wears a Mali national flag as demonstrators gather in Independence square in Bamako, on Aug. 21. Mali’s junta said it’s beginning the process of appointing a transitional government after regional leaders threatened to increase economic sanctions on the country. The military officials met Tuesday with leaders of the Economic Community of West African States, who have demanded power be handed to a civilian interim president. “Until we accept their terms, the sanctions will not be lifted,” Ismael Wague, a spokesman for the junta, told reporters in the capital, Bamako on Wednesday. “We asked to return home and speak to our partners in order to rapidly put in place the committees to manage the transition.” Mutinous soldiers took power on Aug. 19 after arresting former President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita and forcing him to resign. Ecowas, as the 15-nation regional bloc is known, has taken a hard line against Mali, shutting its borders and halting financial flows in a bid to show that coups are no longer acceptable on the continent. “They said that their terms were nonnegotiable and that it was up to us to make a decision,” Wague said, relaying the message given to the junta by the Ecowas leaders. “If we insist, they can push through a total embargo -- nothing will enter, nothing will leave, blocking us completely.” READ: Mali Cleric Urges Junta to Prepare Rapid Return to Democracy (1) Ghanaian President Nana Akufo-Addo, the Ecowas chairman, told reporters Tuesday that a move to civilian rule us expected “within days.” That’s after the junta already missed a Sept. 15 deadline to name a civilian leader. The bloc said Tuesday it would accept a transition of a maximum of 18 months, softening its earlier insistence that it should last no more than a year. However, they told the military rulers that the appointment of a civilian president and prime minister is “non-negotiable,” Wague said. Ecowas envoy and former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan will travel to Mali in a week to follow up on what progress has been made. “They gave us a week to reflect and respond to their demands,” Wague said. “In one week if we agree, they will lift the sanctions.”