We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The surge in India’s new infections continued, while fresh cases in Australia’s Victoria fell to the lowest in more than three months as the country’s worst-hit state prepares for a cautious reopening. The health ministry in New Delhi said 92,605 cases were added in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 5.4 million -- second only to the 6.8 million in the U.S. Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. said Sunday that a Cathay Dragon service between Kuala Lumpur and Hong Kong will be suspended until Oct. 3 after some connecting passengers on a flight from India were found infected. The U.K. will introduce fines of as much as 10,000 pounds ($12,917) for those violating self-isolation rules, local media reported, as the government steps up efforts to contain the latest surge in cases. New infections in South Korea fell below 100 for the first time since mid-August. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The U.S. is nearing 200,000 Covid-19 fatalities Source: Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg  The main opposition National Party kicked off its election campaign, accusing the Labour Party-led government of making mistakes in its coronavirus response and failing to deliver on policy promises. National Party leader Judith Collins attacked the government over the fresh outbreaks of coronavirus in the community, saying if the contact tracing and testing program had been up to scratch, Auckland’s Covid-19 resurgence would have been stamped out by now. Collins faces a tough battle to replace charismatic Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern at the Oct. 17 election. New virus cases in Victoria fell to 14 on Sunday, the state’s health department said on Twitter. The 14-day rolling average declined to 36.2 in metropolitan Melbourne, comfortably below the 50 level the local administration has set as the benchmark for a slight easing of restrictions on Sept. 28. With the country in its first recession in almost three decades and interest rates already at a record low, the budget will include “a range of measures” to help revive the economy, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said. “There will be hundreds of thousands of more jobs come back in between now and Christmas,” Morrison told the ABC’s Insiders program on Sunday. “Victoria will bounce back and that will add to the level of jobs growth.” Cathay Pacific said in a statement that five passengers from India who were on a Cathay Dragon flight between Kuala Lumpur and Hong Kong on Sept. 18 tested positive for Covid-19, even after they submitted negative nucleic acid tests before their trip. The passengers were earlier on an India Express flight. Hong Kong authorities will bar Cathay Dragon passenger flights from Kuala Lumpur for two weeks, leading the airline to suspend the service until Oct. 3, according to the statement. The carrier had been scheduled to operate three flights a week on that route, it said. The country reported 82 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, below 100 for the first time since Aug. 12. Total infections reached 22,975. Yonhap reported earlier that the government will announce whether it will maintain Level 2 distancing rules for regions outside the bigger Seoul area at 4:30 p.m. Sunday local time. The Telegraph reported that fines for those who refuse to self-isolate after being asked to do so start at 1,000 pounds and can go up to 10,000 pounds for repeat offenders. Police will be ordered to patrol areas with the highest infection to make sure people are complying with the new laws, the paper reported. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is also considering several proposals to ease the latest surge. Under consideration is a three-week national shutdown of pubs, bars and restaurants, The Telegraph said. Johnson is also considering raising the 100 pound fine for breaking the rule of six to as much as 1,000 pounds for first-time offenders. Announcement of new curbs could come as early as Tuesday. Brazil reported 33,057 cases, a 0.7% rise in line with the average daily increase in the previous seven days. Total cases are 4,528,240. The nation reported 739 more deaths, for a total of 136,532. California’s latest numbers climbed above the 14-day averages for both new cases and deaths, according to the health department’s website. The state reported 4,304 new coronavirus cases, versus the 14-day average of 3,350. The number of deaths increased by 100, compared with a 91 average. There have been 14,912 fatalities in all. Healthcare workers perform Covid-19 testing for students and faculty at University Prep Value High School in Los Angeles on Sept. 18. Photographer: Kevin Winter/Getty Images France’s daily coronavirus cases surged to the highest since the national lockdown ended in May. Another 13,498 cases were reported on Saturday, the second straight day over 13,000. The higher numbers reflect to some degree increased testing, now five times the level performed in May to over one million a week. But the pace of infections is at its highest since the start of the outbreak, based on rolling 7-day data that smooths out reporting spikes. Authorities have been calling on the population to step up social distancing measures as the number of clusters has been increasing in past weeks, Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire became on Friday the country’s most senior official to become infected. Florida reported the most new cases and the highest positive-test rate among residents since Sept. 10, according to a state Department of Health report that reflects data received through Friday. Test positivity increased to 4.5% from 4.1% a day earlier. Cases, including people diagnosed with Covid-19 who don’t reside in Florida, increased by 3,573 to 681,233. Virus-related deaths among residents declined for the second consecutive day to 67, bringing the total to 13,287. Italy reported 24 new coronavirus deaths Saturday, more than doubling the 10 recorded the day before to levels not seen since July. While new cases declined by almost 300 to 1,638, the number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care at hospitals rose by seven to 215, according to health authorities. That compares with a peak of more than 4,000 ICU patients in April. The U.K. reported 4,422 more cases on Saturday, the second consecutive day with the most new infections since May 8. Another 27 people died within 28 days of testing positive. U.K. cases have surged in the last two weeks, prompting Prime Minister Boris Johnson to warn that tighter restrictions on public life may be needed. Temporary outdoor seating areas in Soho, London on Sept. 19. Photographer: Hollie Adams/Getty Images The country is facing a “perfect storm” after easing controls over the summer, former government adviser Neil Ferguson told the BBC on Saturday. The government needs to resume some nationwide measures “sooner rather than later” to prevent a new surge leading to more deaths, said Ferguson, an Imperial College London professor whose modeling led to the U.K. lockdown in March. Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon repeated her request for Prime Minister Johnson to call an emergency cabinet meeting for the four nations of the U.K. in the next 48 hours, as 350 new cases were recorded in Scotland, up from 203 the previous day. Three people died. In a post on Twitter, Sturgeon urged people to stick to social distancing guidelines and be “extra careful.” 1/ There will always be fluctuations in daily figures - that’s why we look at 7 day averages to balance out variations in testing etc. Even with that caveat though, today’s report underlines fact that COVID is rising. @scotgov is considering over w/e what further action is needed https://t.co/Z7xTXGrB9L Saudi Arabia recorded 551 new Covid-19 cases and 28 deaths on Saturday, the health ministry said. Kuwait had 521 new infections and one death. U.S. cases increased by 49,299 on Friday, a 0.7% increase that compares with a 0.6% daily average over the previous week. It was the second-highest number of new infections on a single day in the last two weeks. Confirmed cases nationwide since the start of the pandemic rose to more than 6.7 million, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Another 932 people died of Covid-19. — With assistance by Sam Nagarajan, Angeline Benoit, Virginia Van Natta, Rachel Gamarski, Hooyeon Kim, Elffie Chew, Emily Cadman, and Vrishti Beniwal