During the first presidential debate, Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden disputed Trump’s claim that the “suburbs would be gone” under a Biden presidency. Photographer: Salwan Georges/The Washington Post via Getty Images Photographer: Salwan Georges/The Washington Post via Getty Images The first U.S. 2020 presidential debate has been called a “s--- show” and a “hot mess” by national television commentators. Characterized in style by interruptions, simultaneous talking and personal attacks, much of the debate was not only shockingly inflammatory — as when the president repeatedly refused to condemn white supremacy. It was also just hard to follow. But in a brief cogent exchange that started as a question about homicide rates, President Donald Trump once again pivoted to one of his favorite topics: the suburbs. “Our suburbs would be gone” under a Biden presidency, he said. “You would see problems like you’ve never seen before.” Biden replied: “He wouldn’t know a suburb unless he took a wrong turn. I was raised in the suburbs. This is not 1950. All these dog whistles and racism don’t work anymore. Suburbs are by and large integrated.” Although Trump never explained his warning that the “suburbs would be gone,” this was not his first variation on the theme. When his administration  rolled back an Obama-era rule intended to reduce segregation in housing, Trump cast the policy as a progressive bid to “abolish the suburbs.” The 2015 rule’s attempt to desegregate, he claimed, threatened affluent homeowners with the prospect of living near low-income housing (and therefore increased crime). That baseless claim played on racist fears and conjured an image of the suburbs as racially homogenous places — what Trump wistfully described as the  “Suburban Lifestyle Dream” — a vision that Biden sought to counter on Tuesday night. “There are as many people today driving their kids to soccer practice,” Biden said, with “Black and White and Hispanic in the same car as there have been at any time in the past.” The thrust of Biden’s comments was that the suburbs are more diverse now than they used to be, and that this diversity has not diminished the American Dream but expanded it. Polls have indeed indicated that  voters aren’t swayed by Trump’s rhetoric about the suburbs. But Biden’s counter-claim that the suburbs are “integrated” isn’t quite right. Willow Lung-Amam, a scholar on urban and suburban inequality at the University of Maryland, College Park, had this to say: Yeah, no. The suburbs are more diverse overall, but more segregated by race and class segregated than ever. And wealthy white suburbs most of all. https://t.co/4Sferfdav0 “The suburbs” is a sweeping American category that includes the the majority of the U.S. population. As of 2010, they also contain the majority of every demographic group. In that sense the suburbs are indeed diverse. But as Brookings Nonresident Senior Fellow Elizabeth Kneebone has written, “they don’t live in the same suburbs.” Within the vast swath of American land that is  vaguely defined as the suburbs, racial and ethnic groups remain separated. “That sorting did not happen ‘organically.’ It’s the product of exclusionary zoning and land use regulations as well as arduous development processes adopted by local officials and communities,” Kneebone explains. “These practices have allowed certain jurisdictions and neighborhoods to hoard wealth and opportunity, fueling racial and economic segregation and creating disparities not only between suburbs and cities but also within suburbia as well.” Persistent segregation is the reason why fair housing laws like the ones repealed by Trump are needed at all. Researchers have documented that U.S. segregation has slightly decreased as non-white people have moved from cities to suburbs. But there are signs that the old patterns of division in cities — which stemmed in many areas from redlining policies and racist housing covenants — are quickly reconstituting themselves as these areas gain more non-white residents. The suburbanization of poverty is fueling segregation within suburbs themselves.  Families with children, especially, are sorting along race and class lines in the suburbs, a worrying trend that could see the next generation of Americans inherit an even more segregated nation. Segregated suburbs are not an artifact of consumer choice. The suburbs have been built up that way for decades as a result of federal policy, or more precisely, a failure to enforce civil rights-era laws to dismantle segregation. While the federal government has sat on its hands for decades, the Trump administration has actively sought to undermine or discard the tools that make this work possible. The Fair Housing Act of 1968, which Congress passed the week after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., includes a mandate that requires cities and states that receive federal dollars to use them in a way that reduces segregation. George Romney, who was housing secretary after MLK’s death, sought to follow the new law by rejecting applications for federal funding from communities that were resisting integration. President Richard Nixon  struck him down, writing in a memo, “I am convinced that while legal segregation is totally wrong that forced integration of housing or education is just as wrong.” This Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing mandate languished until court decisions and other precedents paved the way for a new rule, in 2015, that helped jurisdictions to measure and assess the state of segregation in their communities. Housing Secretary Ben Carson described this as “social engineering” and set out to revise it. Once Trump caught wind of the notion that this rule would  “abolish the suburbs,” that was that — the administration bucked procedure and  scrapped the rule altogether. Earlier this month the Trump administration dialed back another fair housing tool, the federal rule on  “disparate impact,” which guides how the federal government enforces cases of discrimination. These changes  erode the goal of fair housing from two directions, making it harder for communities to fight structural segregation and harder for individuals to fight systemic discrimination. So are suburbs “by and large integrated”? Compared to cities, perhaps, where the concentration of poverty is severe and soaring housing prices have locked out the middle class. But even as the suburbs grow more diverse, they stand to grow more segregated. The Trump administration has done away with the federal government’s best tools for assessing and comparing segregation patterns, which means that growing suburbs may use federal dollars for housing, highways and education in a way that makes segregation worse. And as Biden pointed out, this intentional neglect of the suburbs only exacerbates pre-existing problems, from climate change to environmental justice to health-care disparities — a piercing observation in an otherwise incoherent debate. “What really is a threat to the suburbs and their safety is his failure to deal with Covid,” Biden said, addressing his opponent. “They’re dying in the suburbs. His failure to deal with the environment. They’re being flooded. They’re being burned out because of his refusal to do anything.”