We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. India, the world’s new Covid-19 epicenter, surpassed Brazil as the second-worst hit country. The nation’s virus curve is showing no signs of flattening out, with infections rising by more than 90,000 a day. The U.S., India and Brazil account for more than half the world’s cases, which have now topped 27 million. European hot spots are spiking again, with infections in the U.K. increasing the most in more than three months and the pathogen spreading in France at a “worrying” pace. Australia warned of mounting economic pain as Victoria state announced only a gradual easing of its lockdown. While U.S. cases steadied, governors across the country urged citizens to be cautious during the Labor Day holiday weekend. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The International Olympic Committee’s Vice President John Coates said the Tokyo Olympics will go ahead next year regardless of the coronavirus situation, AFP reported. Virus experts have warned that the Olympics were unlikely to happen even in 2021 as the pandemic won’t be contained in time. Speculation the Games will be canceled had increased after IOC members hinted at that possibility to various media in May. Singapore will allow larger exhibitions and conferences with up to 250 participants to take place, an increase from the current maximum of 50, as the country continues its gradual reopening. The Philippines will meet with Australian manufacturers for a Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the University of Queensland as the Southeast Asian nation expands its search for supplies to combat the region’s biggest outbreak. India, the world’s new Covid-19 epicenter, surpassed Brazil as the second-worst hit country. The country’s virus curve is showing no signs of flattening out, reporting more than 90,000 cases for a second day, as the pandemic threatens to overwhelm an already-overworked health-care system. India has fast become the world’s new virus epicenter, and experts predict it will ultimately surpass the U.S. as the worst outbreak globally. Unlike the U.S. and Brazil, India’s case growth is still accelerating seven months after the reporting of its first infection on Jan. 30. The pathogen has only just penetrated the vast rural hinterland where the bulk of its 1.3 billion population lives, after racing through its dense mega-cities. South Korea added 119 more cases in 24 hours, down from 167 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. The new cases are the fewest in three weeks, as infections remained below 200 for a fifth day. The pace of new cases is slowing, helped by social-distancing steps, Yoon Tae-ho, health ministry official, said in a briefing. Authorities are not yet considering a travel ban over the Chuseok holidays that begin later this month. Singapore identified three new clusters of foreign-worker dormitories that are linked to earlier Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of Health said in a statement. That brings to 12 the number of clusters found in the last week in dormitories previously declared clear of the virus, the Straits Times reported. Dorms housing the low-paid foreign workers that underpin Singapore’s construction and services sectors have made up the vast majority of the Southeast Asian country’s cases. Australia’s government warned of mounting economic pain as Victoria state announced only a gradual easing of its coronavirus lockdown that will see retail, hospitality, tourism and entertainment under tight controls across Melbourne until at least the end of October. The 5 million residents of the state capital will face restrictions on when they can leave home until Oct. 26, or until there are fewer than 5 new Covid-19 cases a day. Office staff will be told to work from home until at least Nov. 23, under the roadmap announced by state Premier Daniel Andrews. Pedestrians cross a quiet Bourke Street in Melbourne on Sept. 6. Photographer: Daniel Pockett/Getty Images Brazil reported 14,521 new cases, fewer than the 31,199 reported the previous day, for a total of 4,137,521. Another 447 people died, down from 701 the day before. Total deaths are 126,650, in the nation with the worst outbreak after the U.S., though India is on track to overtake Brazil in total cases soon. Brian Kemp Photographer: Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images Georgia became the 10th state to surpass 6,000 deaths on Sunday, reporting an additional 60 fatalities. The total death toll is 6,037. Governor Brian Kemp, who faced criticism for an early reopening and for suing localities to prevent mask orders, toured the state on Friday warning Georgians to keep safe over Labor Day weekend. New York University has suspended more than 20 students for violations of rules to curb the spread of the coronavirus, the school announced on Twitter. Colleges and universities around the country are struggling to rein in outbreaks since the start of classes this year -- and some are turning to punishments. Northeastern University in Boston dismissed 11 freshmen late last week and did not refund their $36,500 tuition, the university said. More than 20 NYU students have been suspended so far. Please don't be the next. Avoid parties and bars. Wear a mask. Keep your distance. https://t.co/UpeJRIQDk6 pic.twitter.com/mG5h5DMxev Ireland recorded another 138 new cases, with about half the new infections in Dublin, according to health authorities. That pushed the weekend total to almost 370, the worst weekend figure since early May. France reported 7,071 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, showing the pandemic is continuing to progress at a “worrying” pace, the health ministry said in a statement Sunday. The death toll in rose by just 3 to 30,701 since the start of the outbreak. “The virus circulation is particularly active among young adults,” probably for lack of respect of health measures, the ministry said. Those aged over 65, who are more at risk, are much better abiding by rules, which could explain the weaker virus circulation, it said. The number of new cases has multiplied by 12 since early July, while testing has more than doubled in the period, the ministry said. Some 4.9% of the tests carried out in the past week were positive. A group of funeral workers demonstrate demanding more medical death certificates in Mexico on Aug. 31. Photographer: Alfredo Estrella/AFP via Getty Images Mexico reported excess deaths of 122,765 from March to August, a 59% increase from what was expected, as the coronavirus put the country fourth on the global list of Covid-19 fatalities. The data from the National Center for Preventive Programs and Disease Control, or Cenaprece, takes into account the total number of deaths, regardless of the cause, general director Ruy Lopez said at a press conference Saturday night, according to national newspaper Reforma. Mexico has registered more than 67,000 virus-related fatalities. “Pandemic fatigue” is an additional risk as the U.S. heads into the fall and winter, when infectious diseases traditionally spread more readily, former Food and Drug Administration head Scott Gottlieb said. A vaccine is unlikely to be available for widespread use this year, and more than 20% of the U.S. population could be infected with Covid-19 by year-end based on current spread rates, Gottlieb said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” on Sunday. “People are exhausted,” he said. “People have been social distancing and wearing masks and staying home for a long period of time right now. Small businesses are hurting.” New York’s recent increase in infections eased, to 729 after three consecutive days of more than 800. Although state officials have expressed concern, the recent increases never rose above a daily 0.2% -- the same percentage reported on Sunday. Another nine people died, Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement. A person in a mask looks at the view while visiting Edge sky deck at Hudson Yards in New York City on Sept. 4. Photographer: Cindy Ord/Getty Images New infections in the U.K. rose by 2,988, health authorities reported on Sunday. That’s a 64% jump from the previous day and the biggest daily increase since late May, when the country was under lockdown. Two more people died after testing positive, bringing the total number of fatalities to 41,551 out of 347,152 cases. The new surge in cases is coinciding with millions of children going back to school and a government effort to convince people to return to work. Italy reported 1,297 new coronavirus cases on Sunday. This is the smallest increase in five days amid lower than usual testing at the end of the week. Finance Minister Roberto Gualtieri said in an interview earlier Sunday that the country’s economic rebound in the third quarter will be stronger than initially expected. Israel’s Covid-19 death toll passed 1,000 and the government is considering locking down places with the highest infection rates, chiefly ultra-Orthodox Jewish and Arab towns. The religious Jewish political parties, which form a significant part of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s coalition, are putting pressure on the government to come up with less restrictive measures, local media reported. A member of the national emergency medical service administers a swab sample test at a drive-through testing station in East Jerusalem, Sept. 6. Photographer: Emmanuel Dunand/AFP via Getty Images The 83-year-old former Italian prime minister is responding to treatment for Covid-19, but remains in a “delicate phase,” Dr. Alberto Zangrillo said on Sunday. Zangrillo said he was “cautiously optimistic” about Berlusconi’s recovery, but he didn’t want to declare victory as Berlusconi is considered to be vulnerable to the disease because of his age and other health issues, such as heart problems that required him to use a pacemaker. — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland