An employee of the NHS test and trace program staffs a covid-19 testing centre in north London on Sept. 16. Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Boris Johnson’s government extended coronavirus restrictions across northern England and the Midlands, as ministers refused to rule out a short national lockdown to tackle a surge in infections. Estimates from the Office for National Statistics published Friday suggested there were 6,000 new infections per day in the community in England in the week ending Sept. 10 -- up from 3,200 the week before. For the U.K., the so-called R rate, or how many people each new Covid-19 case infects, is as high as 1.4, the government said, indicating the spread is accelerating. The ONS said there is evidence of higher infection rates in northwest England and London, where Mayor Sadiq Khan warned restrictions could be imposed if infections aren’t slowed. Both Health Secretary Matt Hancock and a spokesman for the prime minister declined to rule out a short national lockdown. With official daily cases running at levels last seen in May, the U.K.’s test and trace system is under strain and millions of people across the country have been placed under local restrictions to limit the spread of the disease. The resurgence poses a major dilemma for Johnson’s government, which is trying to keep the transmission rate down while stimulating an economy that slumped more than any other major developed country during the pandemic. When asked about reports ministers are considering a two-week national lockdown in October as a virus “circuit-breaker,” Hancock told BBC radio he had learned during the pandemic “not ever to rule anything out” but added “we want to avoid national lockdown altogether, that is the last line of defense.” Johnson’s spokesman, Jamie Davies, twice said the government is seeking to avoid “any extended lockdown,” when asked about the reports, leaving open the possibility of a shorter, time-limited intervention. “We’ve always been clear that our strategy is to keep the virus down as much as possible whilst protecting education and the economy,” Davies told reporters. Residents in parts of northwest England, the Midlands and West Yorkshire face a raft of new measures including a ban on socializing with other people outside their own households, the Department of Health said on Friday. In Scotland, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon warned the country is facing a another lock down to arrest “exponential growth” in coronavirus cases, and called for a meeting of the U.K. government’s Cobra emergency committee to enable a “joined up approach.” “I’m giving people advance notice that we are very likely to see some hard and difficult decisions in the coming days,” Sturgeon told reporters in Edinburgh on Friday. “If we want to avoid another full-scale lockdown, doing nothing is not an option.” At a Parliamentary hearing this week, Johnson said a second national lockdown would be “disastrous” for the U.K.’s finances, and his government is sticking to its policy of encouraging workers back to what it describes as “Covid-secure” offices. Ministers have also staked considerable political capital on keeping children in school. “It’s hard to envisage a lockdown of the size and scale we saw in March and April, and the government will be keen to avoid disrupting an already fragile recovery,” said Liz Martins, senior economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. But she said a more limited lockdown, with shorter opening hours or other measures, could be more problematic for companies if they’re not compensated like last time. Khan urged Londoners to stick to the new “rule of six” limit on gatherings to avoid more stringent measures -- such as curfews -- becoming necessary. According to the ONS, the number of people with Covid in the capital is estimated to be around 17,000, or 0.2% of the population, second only to northwest England. “The number of cases in London are going up; the infection rate is going up, and hospital admissions are going up,” Khan told LBC radio on Friday. But he emphasized the city is not yet at the point of needing to follow the restrictions imposed in other parts of England: “We’re keen to do our bit to avoid that happening,” he said. The fresh local restrictions announced on Friday follow similar measures imposed on large areas of northeast England this week. The health secretary said local leaders had asked for the curbs to be imposed. Hancock said the country faces a “big moment” but emphasized a second lockdown “is not the proposal that’s on the table.” Asked if scientists are saying schools and business don’t need to be closed, he replied: “that’s right.” “The strategy is to keep the virus down as much as is possible, whilst protecting education and the economy and doing everything we possibly can for the cavalry that’s on the horizon,” he said, referring to efforts to develop Covid-19 vaccines, new testing technologies and treatments. Much is riding on the government’s test-and-trace program, which officials regard as vital to keep infection rates down and to give people confidence to return to work. But the system is failing to meet key targets, including on the rapid turnaround of tests and the number of people deemed at risk of contracting the virus who are contacted. Johnson’s Covid Test ‘Shambles’ Risks U.K. Economic Revival The shortage of available tests continues to dominate the front pages of Britain’s newspapers, with its implications for businesses and schools. According to a survey by the National Association of Head Teachers, 82% of English schools have children at home because they cannot get a test. The data, collected from 736 school leaders on Thursday, showed 45% of schools have staff off work because they can’t get a test and 60% have staff at home waiting for results. “This means schools are struggling with staffing, have children missing school, and ultimately that children’s education is being needlessly disrupted,” NAHT general secretary Paul Whiteman said. Hancock defended the testing program on Friday, saying the recent surge in demand for tests as schools returned was not accounted for in the scientific modeling. He also blamed the backlog on people without symptoms applying for tests. That position represents a shift in guidance from earlier in the summer, when a surplus of test capacity saw officials encourage people to get tested if they had concerns, , regardless of their symptoms. — With assistance by Andrew Atkinson