With the U.S. presidential campaign heading into the home stretch, problems from the coronavirus and unemployment to race relations and food insecurity are shaking up preconceived notions of voter preferences. Tensions are growing between the world’s largest trading bloc, the European Union, and both Russia and China. Meanwhile, the virus has proven a boon, for now, among Brazil’s poor, but its impact on global supply chains is threatening to kill more people from starvation than complications from the disease. Dig into these and other topics with the latest edition of Weekend Reads. Click here for more of this week’s most compelling political images and tell us how we’re doing or what we’re missing at balancepower@bloomberg.net. If Maricopa County Sours on Trump, So Will Suburbs EverywhereFor years Maricopa County was synonymous with its notorious anti-immigrant sheriff, Joe Arpaio. But as Joshua Green reports, since 2016 voters in the rapidly diversifying county have rejected Arpaio’s style of politics in an ominous sign for U.S. President Donald Trump’s hopes of winning a second term.A Rust Belt Town’s Loyalties Divide as Pennsylvania Turns PurplePennsylvania is a prized election battleground, and if Trump carries the state again it will be because he held on to, or built up, support in places like Ambridge. Shawn Donnan reports from the semi-rural city that is trying to discern where its future lies.Workers Keeping Americans Fed Are Going Hungry in the HeartlandIf one place underscores just how dire America’s hunger problem has become during the pandemic, it’s southern Minnesota, the middle of the breadbasket. As Catarina Saraiva, Carolina Gonzalez and Peyton Forte write, the ranks of Americans fighting hunger are projected to swell some 45% this year to more than 50 million. Johnson’s Party Wonders If He’s Losing His Grip on PowerAfter months of policy blunders and with the economy deep in recession, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson needed a new enforcer to help him rescue a leadership in trouble. Tim Ross, Kitty Donaldson and Alex Morales recall how he called the future king to poach an adviser who must now help him reassert control over a government sliding in the polls and a country in crisis. Merkel said tests “unequivocally” showed Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny was poisoned by a military-grade nerve agent and that Germany will consult with EU and NATO allies to formulate a response against Russian President Vladimir Putin's government. How a Politician’s Death Deepened the Czech Rift With ChinaA visit to Taiwan by a top Czech politician has widened a schism between China and what was once one of its biggest cheerleaders in the EU. Lenka Ponikelska and Andrea Dudik report how Milos Vystrcil is under fire over the trip to what China sees as a renegade province.Fight Over Fish Fans a New Stage of Conflict in South China SeaThe pandemic and growing involvement of the U.S. had been raising the level of aggression in the South China Sea, one of the world's richest fishing grounds. Take a deep dive into how competition over dwindling stocks risks inflaming ties between China and the rest of the world. Brazil Hands Out So Much Covid Cash That Poverty Nears a LowBrazil, which has suffered one of the world’s worst pandemic tolls, has distributed so much cash to people that poverty and inequality are near historic lows. Mario Sergio Lima, Andrew Rosati and Simone Iglesias report how the program is helping some 66 million people and boosting the popularity of President Jair Bolsonaro, who once railed against welfare. One of the World’s Richest Petrostates Is Running Out of CashWhen Kuwait’s then-Finance Minister Anas Al-Saleh warned in 2016 it was time to cut spending, he was ridiculed. As Fiona MacDonald writes, now one of the world’s richest countries is struggling to make ends meet as plunging energy prices raise questions over how Gulf Arab states are run. A Tenth of the World Could Go Hungry While Crops Rot in FieldsWith the pandemic upending supply chains, crippling economies and eroding purchasing power, as many as 132 million more people than previously projected could go hungry in 2020. Megan Durisin, Elizabeth Rembert and Tatiana Freitas explain that by the end of the year, Covid-19 may kill more people each day from hunger than from infections.And finally ... Covid-19. An economy on the rocks. Violence on city streets. The president alleging fraud before any votes are cast: The 2020 U.S. election is shaping up to be the most volatile and contentious in living memory. How badly could it go? In our choose-your-own-election game, see if you can avoid landing in a Supreme Court showdown or constitutional crisis and keep democracy safe (for now). 