America’s election system will be tested like never before this week. Amid fears of the coronavirus, record numbers of voters have already cast their ballots — nearly three-fourths of the entire 2016 turnout had voted by Monday. That’s probably not going to be a problem in states like Arizona and Florida that have traditionally had high rates of mail-in voting and will report their results quickly on Tuesday. But it could lead to complications in states with less experience,   especially battlegrounds like Pennsylvania. Post-election legal fights are all but certain, and in a close race, they might even determine the outcome. A lack of equipment, outdated state laws, changes at the U.S. Postal Service and constant rhetorical attacks on vote-by-mail from President Donald Trump have only complicated matters, leading a judge to order a last-minute sweep of post offices to search for ballots not yet delivered on Tuesday. Voting rights advocates worry that many first-time mail-in voters will have their ballots rejected for simple mistakes like not signing the envelope or mailing them too late, and early ballot processing showed problems with high rates of rejection in some areas, and there are signs that post-election lawsuits may focus on “ballot curing” — or the process of fixing a ballot that was rejected. Democrats fear Trump will use a slower-than-usual vote count to cast doubt on the results, or perhaps even declare himself the winner if the Election Night tally shows him ahead, leading to a messy legal fight and mass protests. And some Republicans are concerned that the president’s attacks may have backfired, helping Democrats build a huge lead in early voting that they may not overcome with Election Day ballots. Vote-by-mail has long been considered a safe and convenient option, and researchers have found very little fraud. But dramatically increasing the number of ballots cast that way could lead to problems counting votes promptly, especially in states like Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, where elections officials aren’t allowed to begin processing them until Election Day. The recent partisan divide over voting by mail could cause further problems. In past elections, late-arriving mail-in ballots tended to favor Democrats, a phenomenon known as the “blue shift.” It is likely to be even more pronounced this year, as results from states that release the data show that 45% of early votes were cast by Democrats, 30% by Republicans and 23% by independents. Meantime, polls show most Trump supporters plan to vote in person on Election Day. In past elections, Trump has used the Democratic surge in votes to heighten unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud. The Trump campaign is already suing over vote-by-mail procedures in Iowa, Montana, Nevada, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. A tight race on election night could lead to a legal fight over which ballots will be counted and the president has indicated that he expects the Supreme Court will get involved. Experts say that a lot of the public debate may depend on which states the candidates win. If Biden wins either Arizona and Florida, two battleground states that process mail-in votes quickly and do not accept ballots that arrive after Election Day, he will be close to winning the race. But if he loses them, it’s more likely the race will come down to slow-counting states like Michigan, where elections officials say it may take until the Friday after the election to have results. Even without a post-election fight, the 2020 race will be the most litigated in U.S. history. According to the Healthy Elections Project, a joint venture of Stanford University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, more than 300 lawsuits have been filed in 44 U.S. states. The Democratic National Committee and left-leaning nonprofit groups have been suing for months to ease rules for mail-in ballots during the pandemic, while Republicans have been intervening or suing to challenge such changes. Trump’s reelection campaign also has sued several states over plans to automatically mail absentee ballots or applications to registered voters. The flood of lawsuits has led to claims that Republicans are trying to suppress the vote by forcing Americans to choose between their health and casting a ballot, and that Democrats are trying to steal the election by scrapping state laws intended to prevent voter fraud. We’ll send curated alerts directly to your inbox on only the most important developments.