A global equity rally cooled in Asia as investors assessed the latest efforts toward U.S. fiscal stimulus and the rising toll of the pandemic. The dollar held losses. Japan ended lower as many shares traded without the right to dividends. South Korea outperformed and China rose modestly, while Hong Kong fell. S&P 500 futures rose after the U.S. gauge climbed the most in more than two weeks Monday. Treasuries were steady. The pound consolidated an advance on speculation that successful Brexit trade talks could help shield Britain from a messy rupture with the European Union. Democrats released a scaled back $2.2 trillion proposal to extend support to the U.S. economy, seeking to break an impasse with Republicans on Covid-19 relief. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin talked Monday evening after the Democratic plan was released and plan to speak again on Tuesday. Traders are also awaiting the first presidential debate Tuesday, as well as an employment report Friday to gauge how the world’s biggest economy is coping with a pandemic that’s now killed more than a million people globally. “We definitely need another round of stimulus here, not only for confidence for the American public and workers, but also for the markets,” Michelle Connell, owner and president of Portia Capital Management, said on Bloomberg Television. “Going into this election, that would definitely help.” Many nations are struggling to contain the coronavirus almost 10 months after it first emerged. Health professionals estimate that the real death toll from the pandemic could be double the official tally. Some countries are battling a renewed jump in cases amid all-out efforts to develop a vaccine. Here are some key events coming up: Tai Hui, chief Asia market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, discusses the outlook for the region’s markets and economies amid the coronavirus pandemic. Source: Bloomberg These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Vildana Hajric, and Claire Ballentine