A rendering of L.A.’s new standard streetlight shows how its modular design can adapt to variety of needs and uses. The city of angels will get a new guiding light: Los Angeles officials revealed on Thursday the winning design for the city’s standard streetlight, following a nine-month competition. Created by the L.A.-based firm Project Room, the structure is composed of bundles of forest-green steel tubes that hold lighting fixtures as well as shade sails, ad banners, smart city devices, and other elements. Different stems can be added or switched out depending on the needs of its location — a pedestrian lamp here, a 5G small-cell there. The interchangeable bouquet-like design is titled “Superbloom.” “It’s not a fixed form, and that is something that it shares with L.A.: a willingness to reshape itself,” said Christopher Hawthorne, the city’s chief design officer and former Los Angeles Times architecture critic. Hawthorne launched the streetlight competition in  November 2019 under the direction of Mayor Eric Garcetti to spruce up L.A.’s public realm ahead of the 2028 Olympics. L.A. is lit by more than 220,000 streetlights of varying vintage, some with ornate candelabras, plump luminaires and fluted siding that date back more than a century. Since the 1960s, however, the city standard has been a steel mast with a rounded arm, a utilitarian design known officially as CD953 that can be found lining most of the city’s major thoroughfares. Once it goes through prototyping and fabrication, Superbloom is set to supplant CD953 as the go-to whenever an old streetlight needs replacement across L.A.’s 502 square miles. The city may demonstrate the new streetlights along a commercial corridor before installing them in neighborhoods to show off how it can adapt to include awnings, benches and commemorative plaques. Hawthorne is eager to see it elevate the quality of public infrastructure in under-resourced neighborhoods. “The most beautiful streetlight designs continue to be concentrated in wealthy areas,” he said. The new streetlight “will touch every part of the city.” Superbloom emerges at a bleak moment in Los Angeles and California at large, where wildfires, heat waves, blackouts and civil unrest have been jockeying with the coronavirus pandemic for headline space all summer. Racial justice protests following the police killing of George Floyd erupted across L.A. in June and July, triggering sometimes-violent clashes between protesters and police. Demonstrations occurred again this week  following the fatal shooting of another Black man, Dijon Kizzee, by L.A. County Sheriff’s deputies in the streets of South Central. The history of urban lighting is closely linked to perceptions of public safety; when they first arrived in the early 20th century, some U.S. newspapers dubbed streetlights “stationary policemen.” That role has expanded in recent decades, with police departments, including L.A.’s, using streetlights as mounts for security cameras, gunshot detectors, and other surveillance tools. Superbloom’s modular design is meant to accommodate any number of technologies that city departments might require in the future, Hawthorne said. Such tools have already sparked backlash in a number of cities,  such as neighboring San Diego, out of concern that they could impinge on civil liberties and target heavily policed communities of color. Whether new streetlights will be greeted with welcome or suspicion in low-income L.A. neighborhoods remains to be seen. Hawthorne acknowledges that this is a dark time to debut a colorful new addition to the streets, but hopes that Superbloom can help bring more than just improved illumination. “No one should expect that this streetlight will save the world,” he said. “But there was something nice about this optimistic design, delivering equity across the city.”