Welcome to Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa, after almost three years of indecision, has acted. He asserted his authority at a ruling party meeting, insisting that officials implicated in corruption allegations step aside. By doing so, analysts say he showed that he is in control of the African National Congress. A bigger challenge lies ahead. He must still prove he is in charge of the economy. With many of his political enemies tainted by claims of graft, clearing them from top positions would give him more room to take tough decisions. His to-do list is daunting. The economy is set to contract at least 7.2% this year and millions of people could be added to the ranks of the unemployed. The national power utility is regularly cutting supply to South Africans, while sinking deeper into debt.So far, there are no concrete plans to slow the decline. The government has launched a campaign to encourage more than $100 billion in private investment in infrastructure over the next decade but hasn’t spelt out how it will be financed. It’s also yet to put forward any ideas as to how the electricity company's $29 billion debt will be cut. There are talks of a cabinet reshuffle, but nothing has been announced.Complex financial plans take time and he may need a few more weeks to make meaningful pronouncements. Arrests of those implicated in corruption ranging from looting a coronavirus-related medical-equipment program to the dubious contracts that have left state entities unable to provide the services that South Africans need, may help boost his credibility.Ramaphosa took a step by defeating his detractors within the ANC. He must now show that he can rescue an economy that many fear is in free fall. Virus Corruption | African countries have received plaudits for how they responded to the coronavirus pandemic, except for one detail: managing the accompanying   corruption. Kenya is the latest African nation to have its politics shaken by allegations of graft in handing out pandemic-response contracts. It follows South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Uganda, which have all been rocked by scandals of their own. With probes ongoing in several countries, the extent of the plunder is still unknown. Coup Politics | The military coup in Mali raised alarm across West Africa, stoking fears of more instability amid an Islamist insurgency. Yet at home, it’s largely seen as a   harbinger of progress. Weeks of public unrest and the final ouster of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita exposed a deep-rooted distrust of the political class in the country. Politicians have taken the blame for the torrent of attacks wreaking havoc in the interior. France, whose soldiers help repel the militants, wants a return to   civilian rule within a year. Aid Suspended | Donald Trump's administration   suspended aid to Ethiopia over the Horn of Africa nation's decision to fill a hydropower dam on a tributary of the Nile River before agreeing with Egypt and Sudan on how the reservoir will be managed. The Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam has posed a challenge to the U.S. as that nation tries to balance the demands of two major African allies and restore relations with a fledgling democratic Sudan. The move may signal backing for Egypt, also an important Middle East partner, in the dispute. Nigeria Doctors | An investment company founded by Ola Brown, a 34- year-old Nigerian doctor, plans a   $1 billion fund to invest in health care and wellness across Africa. Flying Doctors Healthcare Investment Company already has a number of medical-technology companies in its portfolio that are worth an estimated $200 million. Brown founded the air ambulance service Flying Doctors a decade ago and later set up the investment company to finance firms in the industry. `Hotel Rwanda' Arrest | Paul Rusesabagina was hailed as a hero for saving hundreds of people from killing squads during the Rwanda genocide in 1994  —  an act immortalized in the Oscar-nominated `Hotel Rwanda' film starring Don Cheadle. This week police in the nation paraded him in handcuffs after detaining the 66-year-old on   terrorism charges. The authorities haven't said how and where the Belgium citizen was taken into custody. Rusesabagina is a vocal critic of President Paul Kagame and has lived in exile for decades. Data Watch  Coming Up The unexplained deaths of dolphins in Mauritius has fanned anger over the government’s handling of an oil spill, the Indian Ocean island nation’s worst ecological disaster. In less than a week, 46 melon-headed whales — part of the dolphin family — have been found dead on the nation’s southeast coast where Nagashiki Shipping's Wakashio leaked about 1,000 tons of fuel. Tests so far haven’t linked the deaths to the spillage, still thousands of protesters took to the streets of the capital, Port Louis, blaming the mammals' demise on the disaster and accusing the government of failing to prevent the leakage. Meanwhile, the finance ministry has asked Japan for fully-equipped   fishing trawlers. While a letter to the Japanese embassy doesn't mention the oil spill directly, the Asian nation confirmed Tokyo is working on "several requests" from the Mauritian government.