Global Covid-19 infections exceeded 30 million as the number of cases continued to climb, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The U.S., India and Brazil remain the countries with the highest number of cases, while a World Health Organization official called fresh outbreaks in Europe a “wake-up call” for the continent. Democratic nominee Joe Biden blasted President Donald Trump’s response to the virus as “almost criminal.” In New York City, in-person school classes were delayed for the second time, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sent traders home after at least one employee at its downtown office tested positive for Covid-19. Moderna, as well as Pfizer and its partner BioNTech SE, released their plans for analyzing vaccine-trial data amid concerns that the race for a safe and effective product is being politicized. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. India’s epidemic is showing no sign of peaking as the country added more than 96,000 cases overnight, bringing its tally -- the highest in the world after the U.S. -- to more than 5.2 million. Amid the outbreak, economists and institutions like the Asian Development Bank have cut India’s growth projections from already historic lows. Goldman Sachs now estimates India’s economy will shrink 14.8% for the year through March 2021, while the ADB is forecasting a 9% contraction. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development expects India’s economy to shrink 10.2%. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said President Donald Trump’s policy responses to the pandemic were designed to boost stocks and corporations, rather than front-line workers and families. “It was all about making sure the stock market didn’t come down, that his wealthy friends didn’t lose any money,” Biden said in a CNN town hall Thursday night. Trump “waved a white flag. He walked away, he didn’t do a damn thing. Think about it. Think about what he did not do. And it’s almost criminal.” General Insurance Association of Singapore and the Life Insurance Association Singapore extended relief measures to ease the financial strain individual and corporate customers face amid the pandemic. The Monetary Authority of Singapore said the measures will enable policyholders to maintain their policies, or to consider alternate insurance coverage. President Donald Trump announced $13 billion in virus-related aid to farmers at a campaign rally Thursday night in Wisconsin, a critical electoral battleground where he is trailing in recent polls. Congress had authorized additional borrowing authority for the U.S. Department of Agriculture in coronavirus-relief legislation passed earlier this year, and the second round has been widely anticipated. Trump didn’t detail the new assistance, but people familiar with the matter said the Agriculture Department would explain Friday how the aid is to be distributed. U.S. manufacturers are sharply increasing production of cheap, fast - but less accurate - COVID-19 tests, aiming for 100 million per month by year-end that will enable schools and workplaces to significantly expand testing, Reuters reported. Manufacturing and government sources say more than a half-dozen antigen tests will likely be authorized by the end of October. That would bring overall monthly U.S. testing capacity to more than 200 million by year-end, the sources said. The infection-fighting antibodies that people with Covid-19 naturally produce appear to decline over time, with 58% of volunteers in one trial showing no sign of them two months after testing positive. The study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association raises questions about when people who were infected can donate blood for use in convalescent plasma therapies and whether they have lasting protection against repeat infection. The report tracked almost 250 volunteers from Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee. Antibodies were identified in 19 participants after the first test in April, but only eight had them two months later. Volunteers who suffered Covid-19 symptoms were more likely to continue producing antibodies. China will halt imports of aquatic products from PT Putri Indah for a week after finding coronavirus particles on the packaging of frozen hairtail, customs said in a statement. South Korea added 126 coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, down from 153 a day earlier, the 16th straight day the caseload was lower than 200, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. The total number of confirmed cases reached 22,783, while the death tally rose by five to 377. Mexico reported 3,182 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 684,113, according to data released by the Health Ministry Thursday night. Deaths rose 201 to 72,179. The increases in cases and deaths were both below the 7-day average, according to Bloomberg calculations. Mexico will extend land travel restrictions at its border with the U.S. through Oct. 21, the Foreign Affairs ministry said in a tweet. Singapore company Veredus Laboratories has developed a Covid-19 test kit that saves about 40 minutes, cutting the the total processing time to 90 minutes, the Straits Times reported. The kit makes it possible to detect the virus directly from the sample, without needing to extract its viral ribonucleic acid. The company has obtained provisional authorization from the Health Sciences Authority to supply hospitals and medical clinics, the report said. Global coronavirus cases topped 30 million, with infections showing no signs of slowing more than six months after the pandemic was declared. The U.S., India and Brazil account for more than half of the world’s cases, with India emerging as the new epicenter, reporting nearly 100,000 infections a day. The global death toll from the pandemic is approaching 1 million, with the U.S. topping the list with almost 200,000 fatalities. Many health experts believe the actual number of cases and deaths is much higher than what’s been reported. People wearing protective mask ride in a tramway in Bordeaux, southwestern France, on Sept. 16. Photographer: Philippe Lopez/AFP via Getty Images The virus is spreading at a rate of 1 million cases every four or five days. From France to South Korea, former hotspots that had brought the virus under control are fighting fresh outbreaks, complicating efforts to reopen economies. Governments, health experts and individuals are keeping a laser focus on the development of an effective vaccine to rein in the pandemic. Singapore and Switzerland are co-chairing the “Friends of the COVAX Facility” to promote vaccine multilateralism for Covid-19, Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat said in a Facebook post. “Countries, international organizations and the private sector are joining forces to accelerate vaccine development, maximize manufacturing capacity, and ensure equitable distribution,” Heng wrote. Singapore is an early supporter of the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility, he said. Houston’s mayor expressed hesitation about Texas Governor Greg Abbott’s decision to ease restrictions on businesses across most of the state. Abbott announced restaurants, retail stores, office buildings, factories, gyms and museums will be allowed to operate at 75% of capacity starting Monday. “That is a little bit more aggressive than I would prefer in announcing the next round of reopenings,” Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said. “I would caution anyone from claiming any sort of victory over this virus. We are still not in normal times.” Argentina reported 12,701 new Covid-19 cases and 232 deaths Thursday, according to the government. Total Covid-19 cases now stand at 601,713, with 12,460 fatalities. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sent some traders home from its Manhattan headquarters after at least one employee tested positive for Covid-19, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Goldman Sachs Group headquarters in New York, U.S., on July 12. Photographer: Jeenah Moon/Bloomberg A quarantine was imposed on a select group directly exposed to the infected worker, said people who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public. The bank is moving forward with plans to start bringing back staffers across most divisions, telling some of them to prepare for week-in, week-out rotational shifts starting in October, the people said. New cases and deaths are slowing in all regions of Brazil, according to the Health Ministry. Confirmed cases increased by 36,303 in the last 24 hours to almost 4.46 million. Deaths rose by 829 to 134,935, Thursday’s data showed. Meanwhile, last week’s swearing-in ceremony for Brazil’s chief justice is emerging as the potential source of a new cluster of infections among the political elite. Lower house Speaker Rodrigo Maia became the fifth senior government official to test positive after attending the event. AstraZeneca Plc, the drugmaker working with the University of Oxford on a Covid-19 vaccine, contradicted a report that a volunteer in U.K. trials developed a rare nerve disease that might signal severe safety problems. AstraZeneca was responding Thursday to a CNN report citing documents indicating that the diagnosis of the participant was confirmed as transverse myelitis. The diagnosis was “based on preliminary findings” and is inaccurate, the Cambridge, England-based drugmaker said in an emailed statement. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.6% compared with the same time Wednesday, to 6.65 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase matched the average daily gain over the past week. Deaths reached 197,244. Makers of two of the leading coronavirus candidates disclosed detailed information about their pivotal late-stage clinical trials and how they plan to gauge their shots’ safety and effectiveness. A health worker injects a person during clinical trials for a Covid-19 vaccine in Florida, U.S., on Sept. 9. Photographer: Eva Marie Uzcategui/Bloomberg The moves by Moderna Inc. came hours after similar disclosures from Pfizer Inc. and partner BioNTech SE, following concern that the effort to develop a Covid-19 is becoming politicized and that an inoculation could be rushed to market before it’s proven safe and effective. President Donald Trump would support narrow legislation to provide more financial aid to airlines, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said Thursday after meeting with industry executives. Meadows said the industry needs $25 billion, and that as many as 50,000 jobs are at risk. Airlines have warned that they plan mass reductions after an existing federal prohibition on job cuts expires Sept. 30. Demand for coronavirus tests is “significantly outstripping” the capacity available, the U.K.’s testing chief said. The number of people calling the Covid-19 phone helpline and visiting the government website totaled three to four times the number of tests, said Dido Harding. Watch: Johns Hopkins University Professor of Nursing Jason Farley discusses the timeline for Covid-19 vaccine trials. (Source: Bloomberg) Hans Kluge, the World Health Organization’s regional director for Europe, said the region is showing “alarming rates of transmission.” The September case numbers “should serve as a wake-up call for all of us,” he added. U.K.’s government will no longer ask people arriving from Singapore and Thailand to quarantine, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said. Slovenia and Guadeloupe were removed from the Travel Corridor list, so travelers arriving from those countries will be asked to self-isolate. New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a revised schedule for in-person schools that will delay kindergarten through eighth grade openings to Sept. 29 and middle and high schools until Oct. 1. Learning will begin remotely Sept. 21 for all but pre-kindergarten pupils and those with severe developmental disabilities. — With assistance by Michael Arnold, Joe Carroll, Michelle Fay Cortez, and Ruth Pollard