An ally of Democratic nominee Joe Biden said Trump is the “master of distraction” who will seek to change the topic at the debate. The campaign of President Donald Trump wants to check for earpieces at the debate. And mail-in voting begins with problems in New York. There are 35 days until the election and 76 days until the Electoral College meets. Other Developments: A Biden ally says Trump is a “master of distraction” who will seek to change the subject at the debate. In an interview with Bloomberg Radio, Delaware Senator Chris Coons said Trump would throw out a lot of different lines at the debate Tuesday night. Chris Coons Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg “I expect the unexpected from him tonight,” he said. “I think he’ll make some bold but baseless announcements. I think he’ll go after Joe’s family personally in ways that will be tough for Joe not to be distracted by.” Coons said Trump has “an uneven relationship with the truth” and will make “wild misstatements and pronouncements,” but that Biden needs to stay focused on his own plans for fighting coronavirus and boosting the economy. “You can’t chase every rabbit hole that opens up before you,” he said. After alleging that Democratic nominee Joe Biden uses Teleprompters and performance-enhancing drugs, the Trump campaign is now calling for proof that he’s not using a hidden earpiece at the debate. In a statement released Tuesday, Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh claimed that Biden backed down from an agreement for an inspection. “Joe Biden’s handlers several days ago agreed to a pre-debate inspection for electronic earpieces but today abruptly reversed themselves and declined,” Murtaugh said. He also claimed that Biden asked for “multiple breaks” during the debate, which the Trump campaign rejected, and again repeated Trump’s call for a drug test before the debate. The Biden campaign was expected to respond to the allegations later Tuesday. Problems with mail-in ballots marred the start of early voting in New York, potentially disenfranchising thousands of voters while boosting Trump’s efforts to discredit the election. Queens County Ballot Photographer: Kenneth Hughes/Bloomberg As the first ballots have begun arriving in mailboxes, New Yorkers have reported receiving ones marked for members of the military and return envelopes with a different voter’s name. The latter problem could lead to ballots being rejected for failing to match the signature on file. As a reliably Democratic state, problems in New York are unlikely to affect the outcome of the presidential election, but they will give Trump more grist for criticizing vote by mail. He has already cited New York’s botched primary, falsely arguing that the slow count and other problems meant it was a “rigged election.” In recent days, Trump has suggested that he may not accept the results if he loses the election, making baseless claims of voter fraud, especially in vote by mail. New York Mail-In voting is in a disastrous state of condition. Votes from many weeks ago are missing - a total mess. They have no idea what is going on. Rigged Election. I told you so. Same thing would happen, but on massive scale, with USA. Fake News refuses to report! It’s a strategy as old as the presidential debates themselves: Hype your opponent before a match so that you can claim you beat expectations. But Trump has struggled with the tactic, and his top surrogates aren’t on the same page just hours before the first presidential debate. Donald Trump Jr. stuck to the current script in an interview with Fox News Monday, saying Biden “should be decent in the debate” because “he’s been doing it for half a century.” But on Fox News this morning, Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani went off script, lowering the bar for Biden dramatically. “The man has dementia, there’s no doubt about it,” he said. “I’ve talked to doctors. I’ve had them look at a hundred different tapes of his, five years ago and today.” Secret tapes may have brought Richard Nixon down, but Bob Woodward didn’t think much of his own tapes of Trump at first. The Watergate journalist said he taped his interviews with Trump for his book “Rage” for his own aid in transcription, but it was his wife, Elsa Walsh, and a CNN producer who convinced him to release the audio, Woodward told Bloomberg TV Tuesday morning. WATCH: Bob Woodward, associate editor of The Washington Post, says he didn’t intend to release the Trump tapes. (Source: Bloomberg) It was Trump’s own frequent attacks on journalism as “fake news” that changed Woodward’s mind. “In this era where people distrust everything, especially the media, Trump’s voice is the most recognizable voice in the world, perhaps,” he said. “Put it out, and then people can hear it for themselves.” Woodward said he has released 38 audio clips of his interviews with Trump so far, but he estimated he has about eight hours and 30 minutes still unreleased. He said he may release further clips as issues arise. Biden’s sort-of home-state advantage is paying off in Pennsylvania, where two new polls show him ahead by substantial margins. The Keystone State, where Biden lived until he was 10, is seen as one of the most likely tipping-point states, and factors in most of Trump’s paths to re-election. But Biden is ahead of Trump by 9 percentage points among likely voters in both a poll conducted by the New York Times and Siena College and a poll by the Washington Post and ABC News. Biden led Trump 49% to 40% in the Times poll and 54% to 45% in the Post poll. The Times poll was conducted Sept. 25-27 and released Monday evening. It has a margin of error of 4.3 percentage points. The Post poll released Tuesday morning was conducted Sept. 21-26 with a margin of error of 5 percentage points.-- Emma Kinery A poster being sold by the Trump campaign seeks lawyers to fight over ballots after Election Day. Selling for $24, the 24-inch by 36-inch “limited edition fine art poster” features a drawing of Trump with a white spangled top hat and pointing at the viewer, done in the manner of Uncle Sam in a World War I propaganda poster. “I Want You to Join Lawyers for Trump,” it says in large letters. Below, it adds, “Help prevent voter fraud on Election Day.” The Trump campaign has already sued over election rules in Iowa, Montana, Nevada, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Trump, who frequently makes baseless charges of fraud about vote-by-mail, has said he expects the election to end up before the Supreme Court. Get ready to hear this number from a conservative think tank more than once at tonight’s debate: $3 trillion. That’s the amount that Biden’s tax plan would raise over the next decade, although it would even out to only about $2.65 trillion after accounting for economic effects from higher levies on companies and wages, according to new a analysis from the right-leaning Tax Foundation. The bottom 20% of earners would see their after-tax income increase 10.8%, partially due to an increase in the child tax credit. The top 1% of earners would see their incomes decrease 9.9% as a result of higher levies on income, capital gains and additional payroll taxes. Trump’s campaign has run ads saying that Biden’s tax plan would crush the middle class, but the data show that the bottom 80% of taxpayers would all see increases to their income in 2021 under the Democrat’s policies. Over a decade, those individuals would see slight decreases because of indirect effects of higher taxes on businesses. -- Laura Davison Both Biden and Trump hope to pick up a spare elector in Maine or Nebraska that could decide the presidency. But, for now, Biden has the edge. The two states break up their electors by congressional district, which gives Trump an opportunity in rural Maine, where he won an elector in 2016, and Biden a shot in Omaha, where Obama won an elector in 2008. A New York Times/Siena College poll released Monday showed 48% of likely voters in Nebraska’s Second Congressional District backed Biden and 41% supported Trump, with 11% undecided. Biden is also ahead by 4 percentage points in the Real Clear Politics average of polls in Maine’s Second District. Six out of seven scenarios presented by the Trump campaign earlier this month had Trump winning at least one elector in Maine, including two in which it provided the winning margin. None showed him losing in Nebraska. The poll of 420 likely voters in Nebraska’s Second District was conducted Sept. 25-27. It had a margin of error of plus-or-minus 5.3 percentage points. In case this election hasn’t been strange enough already, Pelosi is making public plans in case of an Electoral College tie. There are plausible, though still unlikely, scenarios in battleground states in which Biden and Trump tie at 269-269, both failing to reach the 270 electors needed to win outright. If that happens, the presidential race is thrown to the House in January. But there’s a twist: Each state only gets one vote. And while Democrats have the majority in the House right now, Republicans control 26 state delegations. In a letter to Democratic colleagues, Pelosi urged them to support the House Majority political action committee to try to win a handful of races that could tip more state delegations in their favor. “Because we cannot leave anything to chance, House Majority PAC is doing everything it can to win more delegations for Democrats,” Pelosi wrote in the letter. “It’s sad that we have to plan this way, but it’s what we must do to ensure the election isn’t stolen.” Biden and Trump meet at the first presidential debate Tuesday night in Cleveland. The debate will be held from 9 to 10:30 p.m. Eastern. — With assistance by Laura Davison, and Emma Kinery