Photographer: Yuriko Nakao/Bloomberg Photographer: Yuriko Nakao/Bloomberg Most Asia-Pacific stock markets rose after U.S. equities set a fresh all-time high, with investors assessing signs the rally that took global shares to a record high is broadening into other sectors and away from technology. The dollar climbed. Japan’s Topix index pared initial gains and South Korean shares outperformed. Hong Kong opened with a decline. S&P 500 futures dipped after the index climbed 1.5% to hit another record with utilities and materials stocks leading the charge and technology shares lagging. The dollar added to gains as the euro slid further below $1.20, a level it breached for the first time in more than two years Tuesday. Oil steadied, while gold held Wednesday’s retreat. The global stock rally has pushed major indexes to record highs as traders bet that a flood of liquidity unleashed by central banks will make its way into equity markets. The rotation away from the tech titans that have led gains this year -- with Apple, Tesla and Zoom Video all slumping Wednesday -- could signal confidence in a broader economic recovery from the pandemic and hopes for a vaccine. “What we are seeing is a little bit of profit taking now in the big tech sector as people look to rebalance their portfolios going into the last part of this year,” Ann Berry, partner at Cornell Capital LLC, said on Bloomberg TV. “Folks are trying to go back to basics a little bit as we continue to see these surges and the topping out in the value of the market right now.” Meantime, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has told states to prepare for a Covid-19 vaccine to be ready by Nov. 1, an aggressive goal that suggests availability just before the presidential election. Infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci warned of a potential surge in American cases from the coming long holiday weekend. “Markets continue to show unrestrained faith in the capacity of central bank liquidity to chart a relatively smooth path for the global economy out of the Covid challenges,” said Stephen Miller, investment strategist at GSFM. Here are some key events to watch this week: David Bailin, Citi Private Bank chief investment officer, says the majority of the market is recovering to what it was before the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and the “least loved” sectors are about to start recovering too. Source: Bloomberg Here are the main market moves: — With assistance by Sarah Ponczek, Claire Ballentine, and Ye Xie