AstraZeneca Plc Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said the coronavirus vaccine the company is developing with the University of Oxford could still be ready before the end of the year. Global deaths from the Covid-19 pandemic exceeded 900,000. Lloyd’s of London, the world’s largest insurance market, said it expects to pay out as much as 5 billion pounds ($6.5 billion) in claims related to coronavirus. Germany added four more French regions and two in Switzerland to its list of coronavirus risk areas. In Asia, China’s vaccine frontrunner said none of the recipients of its two shots has reported an obvious adverse reaction or infection. It is pressing ahead with testing after AstraZeneca suspended its trial. Tokyo is lowering its virus alert to one notch below the highest level. Interviews from a new book revealed U.S. President Donald Trump deliberately minimized the danger of the coronavirus, a move he defended as intended to limit panic. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. AstraZeneca’s Soriot said the vaccine the company is developing could still be ready before the end of the year. Speaking at an online conference Thursday, Soriot sought to reassure investors after the company and its partner confirmed earlier this week that they had temporarily stopped giving patients the experimental shot. The trial was halted after a participant in the U.K. got sick, triggering a review of safety data. It’s still not clear whether the patient has a condition called transverse myelitis, a suspected diagnosis, Soriot said. The Indian company enlisted to manufacture a billion doses of AstraZeneca’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine is pushing ahead with its own clinical trial even while testing is halted. The Serum Institute of India said it received a notice from the Drug Controller General of India seeking information on the illness of a person participating in AstraZeneca’s trials in Britain. The regulator asked Serum to demonstrate why its clinical trial license should not be suspended until the safety of the vaccine is established, according to a report from the Press Trust of India. The Thai tourism agency is pursuing a plan to allow foreigners from countries with low coronavirus infection risks to visit the Southeast Asian nation without a mandatory quarantine. The waiver will be aimed at Asian travelers who usually don’t stay for more than two weeks, Thai language newspaper Khaosod reported, citing Yuthasak Supasorn, governor of the Tourism Authority of Thailand. Indonesia’s government will increase the capacity of hospitals and health facilities after an increase in Covid-19 cases, Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Airlangga Hartarto told a press briefing on Thursday. The plan includes using rooms in an athlete’s village in Jakarta and low-star hotels for self-isolation facilities. Germany added four more French regions and two in Switzerland to its list of coronavirus risk areas. The French regions of Occitanie, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Auvergne-Rhone-Alpes and Corsica are now included, joining Ile-de-France and Provence-Alpes-Cote d’Azur, the country’s public health institute said on its website. The institute also added the Swiss regions of Geneva and Waadt, as well as the the Czech capital Prague and additional areas of Croatia and Romania. The German government advises against travel to areas considered a risk. The coronavirus bill for insurers continues to mount with Lloyd’s of London saying it expects to pay out up to 5 billion pounds ($6.5 billion) in claims. The world’s largest insurance market announced a pre-tax loss of 400 million pounds for the first half after reinsurance provisions helped cover some 2.4 billion pounds of losses from Covid claims. The firm posted a 2.3 billion pound profit for the same period last year. The Lloyds of London Ltd. building in the City of London, U.K. France must “do everything” to avoid lockdowns even though some local ones can’t be ruled out, the head of the country’s scientific council said in an interview on RTL radio. The French are showing “too much laxism” in the face of the pandemic, said Jean-Francois Delfraissy, who heads a council that advises the government. He said he doesn’t see a vaccine against Covid-19 before the first quarter. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government’s expert panel on the coronavirus said it was lowering the virus alert in the city one notch from what had been the highest level. Infections have been falling in Tokyo from peaks reached about a month ago. The city is also planning to end some of its restrictions on operating hours for bars and restaurants, allowing them to stay open longer, the Asahi newspaper reported. Manhattan apartment rental listings jumped to a record 15,025 at the end of August, more than double the inventory from a year earlier, according to a report Thursday by appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and brokerage Douglas Elliman Real Estate. The borough’s vacancy rate reached a new high of 5.1%. Last August, it was under 2%. In Tokyo, office vacancy rates rose for six months in a row, as the pandemic pushed some tenants to reduce space. The latest vacancy rate reading was 3.07%, the highest since Jan. 2018, according to data released by Miki Shoji Co. Singapore says that the new infection clusters emerging among more than 300,000 workers living in dormitories are due to many of them not being exposed to the virus yet. The new cases in these accommodations that were previously declared clear of the virus were also not picked up by earlier tests as the virus was incubating, and had not yet reached the concentration that could be detected, according to Second Minister for Manpower Tan See Leng. Dr. Shawn Vasoo, clinical director at Singapore National Center for Infectious Diseases, discusses confining the city-state’s migrant workers to contain coronavirus, while others are under less restrictions. He speaks on “Bloomberg Daybreak: Asia.” (Source: Bloomberg) Indonesia’s benchmark stock index fell 5% after its capital brought back social distancing measures amid a continued rise in the number of coronavirus cases. Jakarta is bringing back restrictions on offices and restaurants, with employees of non-essential industries required to work from home and limit the use of public transportation starting Sept. 14. Entertainment sites and places of worship will be shut. The University of Wisconsin’s flagship campus in Madison will pause in-person instruction for two weeks, from Sept. 10 to 25, and shift to remote instruction starting Sept. 14 for at least two weeks. Wisconsin is one of several major state universities that have tried to go ahead with in-person instruction amid the pandemic while managing risks, rather than adopt a virtual classroom model. The school is part of the Big Ten Conference that postponed fall athletics including football. China National Biotec Group Co. said none of the recipients of its two coronavirus shots has reported an obvious adverse reaction or infection, as the Chinese vaccine front-runner presses ahead with testing after AstraZeneca paused its trial. Hundreds of thousands of people have received the Covid-19 shots so far, said the vaccine developer, a subsidiary of state-owned drugmaker Sinopharm Group Co. The vaccine is being administered under an emergency-use program that allows experimental shots to be used for frontline workers before they complete final testing. China’s biggest airshow, which takes place every two years in the southern city of Zhuhai, rescinded a comment that the event was being canceled due to the coronavirus pandemic. The China International Aviation & Aerospace Exhibition is due to take place from Nov. 10-15 and feature industry giants including Boeing Co. “I enjoy the tour very much.”A group of 31 expats became the first large-scale tour group to visit Sichuan’s Leshan Giant Buddha after China announced the resumption of cross-province group tours on July 14 since #Covid19 ( Source: QuickTake) Mexico reported 4,647 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 647,507, according to data released by the Health Ministry Wednesday night. Cases rose 0.7%, compared with a seven-day average rise of 0.8%. Argentina reported a record of 12,259 new cases for a national tally of 512,293. Peru’s new cases rose by 6,586 for total of 702,776, and the country’s confirmed fatalities from Covid-19 have declined since the first week of August. Los Angeles County officials softened their stance on trick-or-treating during the pandemic, saying the annual Halloween tradition they’d prohibited Tuesday was now just not recommended. The county, home to 10 million people, maintained its ban on Halloween parties with non-family guests and suggested residents hold online events, car parades or just decorate their yards. Watch: Johns Hopkins Assistant Professor Lauren Sauer discusses appropriate timing and safety measures needed for the approval of a Covid-19 vaccine. (Source: Bloomberg) Boris Johnson told the British public to limit social contact as much as possible as coronavirus infection rates rise across the country, threatening its fragile economic recovery. The prime minister confirmed plans to ban gatherings of more than six people in England, and urged compliance to slow the spread of the disease and avoid a repeat of earlier restrictions which shuttered businesses, closed schools and plunged the U.K. into recession into its deepest recession in at least a century. President Donald Trump defended telling journalist Bob Woodward that he intentionally downplayed the severity of the coronavirus in public, saying he didn’t want to cause panic or price spikes. “We don’t want to instill panic, we don’t want to jump up and down and start shouting that we have a problem that is a tremendous problem, scare everybody,” Trump told reporters at the White House, after announcing a list of potential Supreme Court appointees. A rally last month in Sturgis, South Dakota, that attracted hundreds of thousands of largely unmasked motorcycle riders may be linked to soaring cases across the U.S. Motorcycles parked during the 80th Annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally in South Dakota on Aug. 9. Photographer: Michael Ciaglo/Getty Images More than 460 counties nationwide where bikers originated from and Covid-19 cases were trending downward before the rally have shown increases in the virus, a Bloomberg Industry Group data analysis shows. More than two dozen counties in South Dakota, Minnesota, Iowa, and Texas flipped in such a manner, while significant numbers of counties in states as far away from the Dakotas as North Carolina, California, and Louisiana also made the list. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.2% as compared with the same time Tuesday to 6.33 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was lower than the average daily gain of 0.6% over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.3% to 189,972. People arrive at a coronavirus testing site in Los Angeles, on Sept. 4. Photographer: Frederic J. Brown/AFP via Getty Images — With assistance by Stuart Wallace, Ville Heiskanen, and Iain Rogers