Global confirmed deaths hit 1 million as major developed and emerging economies are struggling to contain the coronavirus almost 10 months after it first emerged. India saw a slight reprieve in its case buildup, reporting the lowest increase in almost a month. In the U.S., warning signs are emerging that the country faces more deaths and serious illnesses as winter approaches and Germany warned of a surge in infections. The pandemic is creating a class of “new poor” across East Asia and the Pacific with 38 million more people expected to sink into poverty in 2020, according to the World Bank. The triple shock of the pandemic, the containment measures and the global recession means the region will grow only 0.9% this year, its weakest expansion since 1967 -- and poverty will increase for the first time in 20 years. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Serie A soccer team Geona said fourteen members of the match squad tested positive to coronavirus, including soccer players and staff. Genoa lost its latest match in Naples, which has been one of the region with highest daily cases in the last week, on Sunday. The league may now postpone the team next’s match, Italian media report. CanSino Biologics Inc. is launching a phase II clinical trial in eastern China that will also test its Covid-19 vaccine in two doses, according to the trial protocol posted on database clinicaltrials.gov. The trial will recruit 481 volunteers in total, including minors agedbetween 6-18 and people aged 56 or older, as well as those who have previously received the company’s Ebola vaccine, which was developed using a similar technology India reported 70,589 additional coronavirus cases, bringing total infections to 6.15 million, according to data released by the health ministry. The latest figure is the lowest increase in almost a month, though India is still reporting roughly twice as many cases each day as the U.S. and may overtake it as the country with the most cases in the world. India’s underfunded health-care system faces a growing challenge to control the outbreak, which is escalating through the nation’s hinterland and drawing resources away from routine health services. Unintended pregnancies in the Philippines could spike by almost half to 2.6 million if movement restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic remain until yearend, the United Nations Population Fund said. Quarantine measures are also causing 60 additional maternal deaths a month, as restrictions prevent two million more women to access family planning needs, the agency said, citing a study by the University of the Philippines Population Institute. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said her government was looking at allowing city residents currently on the Chinese mainland to return home without quarantining for 14 days, providing they first had a negative virus test. “We are in an advanced internal discussions to facilitate such Hong Kong residents coming back,” Lam told a weekly press conference. She also said the financial hub would extend virus-related social distancing measures, with details to be released at a later health briefing. Some Bank of Japan board members discussed whether a new policy approach is needed in the age of Covid-19 to hit an increasingly distant price goal, according to a summary of opinions from the last meeting in mid-September. “It will be necessary to reconsider the strategy toward achieving the target comprehensively” given that 2% inflation is out of sight and there have been significant changes in economic developments, one of nine board members said, a summary released by the bank said on Tuesday. Sri Lanka’s credit rating was cut deeper into junk by Moody’s Investors Service, citing risks from the coronavirus-induced shock to the economy. The nation’s long-term foreign-currency credit rating was cut to Caa1 from B2, according to a statement. The outlook was stable. Sri Lanka joins Iraq, Democratic Republic of Congo and Belize at the rating level. South Korea added 38 coronavirus cases in 24 hours, down from 50 a day earlier, according to data from Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. The number of newly confirmed cases was the lowest in seven weeks. The total death tally rose by one to 407. Mexico reported 3,400 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 733,717, according to data released by the Health Ministry late Monday. Deaths rose 173 to 76,603, with growth slowing to a seven-day average of 0.2%. The world officially recorded 1 million deaths from Covid-19, though health experts say the real tally might be almost double. The virus’s rapid spread and ability to transmit in people who show no signs of the disease have enabled it to outrun measures to accurately quantify cases through widespread diagnostic testing. Men in protective suits carry the coffin of an alleged Covid-19 victim in Honduras, June 2020. Photographer: Orlando Sierra/AFP via Getty Images The U.S. has by far the most recorded deaths, topping 200,000, with Brazil and India together accounting for over 200,000 more. Worldwide, the growth in the number of daily deaths has eased since spiking in March and April, helped by improved medical care and ways to treat the disease. But as resurgences flare in Europe and North America ahead of winter and the flu season, Covid-19 fatalities may rise again. Estimates of a higher death toll, would rank it among the top five causes for deaths globally based on historical figures. By estimates, Covid-19 would rank among top 10 causes of death globally Source: WHO, Alan Lopez of the University of Melbourne Note: Cause of death stats for 2016; Covid-19 fatalities estimate is a range between 2.5 million to 3 million California, home of the most U.S. cases, is seeing signs that infections may be starting to rise again, Governor Gavin Newsom said Monday. While the number of Californians hospitalized continues to fall, the state has seen upticks of virus reproductive rates in three regions, which include the metropolitan areas of Los Angeles, San Diego and San Francisco, he said. A healthcare worker speaks to visitors at a drive-up testing center in Los Angeles on Sept. 18. Photographer: Kevin Winter/Getty Images “You can see that trend line where in the last few weeks the r-effective is beginning to march back up,” Newsom said during a press conference. “This is, again, what science predicted if we go back to our original form, if we’re not cautious, if we’re not vigilant, if we’re not wearing our masks.” Still, the state has seen marked improvement after a summer surge, with its average rate of positive tests over the past 14 days falling to a new low of 2.8%. Newsom said he expects “a number” of counties will be allowed to move into less-restrictive tiers for businesses this week. President Donald Trump announced plans to distribute millions of Abbott Laboratories’s 15-minute Covid-19 tests in the coming weeks, a move aimed at expanding access and helping reopen schools. The federal government expects to ship 150 million of the Abbott rapid tests, based on states’ populations, Trump said at a press conference at the White House. The administration will encourage states -- which have ultimate discretion over how to deploy the tests -- to use about 100 million to screen teachers, check symptomatic children to see if they have contracted the virus, or conduct baseline surveillance. France reported 4,070 new cases, the fewest since mid-August. The seven-day rolling average of new infections fell to 12,083 from 12,258 on Sunday. Virus-related deaths rose by 81 to 31,808. Police officers speak with restaurant and bar owners gathering to protest in Paris, on Sept. 28. Photographer: Geoffroy van der Hasselt/AFP via Getty Images The decline comes as the strictest new measures to close bars early in many cities came into force. Health Minister Olivier Veran has said hospital admissions and deaths linked to Covid-19 will inevitably follow the country’s increase in cases. New York is seeing an uptick in coronavirus cases, particularly in Brooklyn, and Orange and Rockland Counties, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Monday. Of the 52,000 tests done on Sept. 27, 834, or 1.5%, were positive, he said on a call with reporters. The number of tests coming back positive throughout August and the first week of September were at or below 1%. Eleven New Yorkers died as a result of the virus, and 543 people hospitalized. Some 2.6% of tests in Brooklyn were positive, and 3% were positive in the Mid-Hudson region, he said. “Brooklyn is a major contributor in the number of cases,” Cuomo said. Germany will face more than 19,000 new Covid-19 cases a day by the end of December if the current trend in infections isn’t halted, Chancellor Angela Merkel warned on Monday. The country recorded about 11,000 cases last week. The country must act quickly to avoid the same rapid rise in cases that has been seen in neighboring countries such as France, which has been reporting an average of about 12,000 cases each day, Merkel told leaders of her party. — With assistance by Jonas O Bergman, and Jeff Sutherland