Asian stocks climbed in early trading Wednesday after another record high for their U.S. peers as tech shares advanced and investors snapped up work-from-home winners. Stocks saw modest gains in Japan, Australia and South Korea. S&P 500 futures rose after a climb in Apple Inc. again pulled the benchmark to an all-time high. Zoom Video Communications Inc. earlier led a rally in companies well positioned for stay-at-home orders. The dollar dipped once more, having erased overnight losses as data showed U.S. manufacturing expanded last month at the fastest pace since 2018. The euro steadied after falling from $1.20, a level it breached for the first time in over two years Tuesday. Treasury yields were little changed. Global stocks are continuing to grind higher as investors anticipate more support from policy makers, with last week’s announcement from the Federal Reserve that the central bank will maintain an easy-money policy adding fuel to the trade. The U.S. manufacturing expansion on Tuesday came after Chinese factory data signaled rising global demand for exports, a sign the world economy is recovering from the pandemic. “The big theme right now is the unrelenting, record-breaking rally in tech stocks,” said Candice Bangsund, portfolio manager of global asset allocation at Fiera Capital Corp. “The landscape for stocks is great but there’s still, from a macro perspective, a lot of unknowns as to the progression of the virus and, of course, the implications for global growth.” On the virus front, Texas may lift restrictions on businesses as soon as next week, while New York City delayed the start of its school year by almost two weeks after teachers said they would consider striking if health and safety measures weren’t in place. Meantime, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the U.S. economy urgently needs additional fiscal stimulus to fully rebound from the Covid-19 crisis, and he initiated a conversation with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi amid stalled negotiations on a relief package. Crude oil climbed above $43 a barrel as the pickup in economic activity in the U.S. and China signaled a pronounced recovery in crude consumption. Here are some key events to watch this week: U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says the U.S. economy needs additional fiscal stimulus to fully rebound from the Covid-19 pandemic. Source: Bloomberg Here are the main market moves: — With assistance by Katia Dmitrieva, and Vildana Hajric