U.S. futures climbed at the end of a week in which concerns over valuations in some pockets of the market whipsawed global equities. The British pound headed for its biggest weekly drop since March as Brexit talks frayed. Nasdaq 100 futures pointed to a rebound following a topsy-turvy U.S. session which saw the tech-heavy gauge lose more than 2% on Thursday. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index swung between gains and losses, with Altice Europe NV and Aryzta AG jumping on takeover news while banks and oil shares led declines. The euro extended its advance against the dollar. Core European bonds gained, while Treasuries were steady. Traders will be closely watching comments from European Central Bank officials after President Christine Lagarde spurred a rally in the euro on Thursday when she delivered relatively mild comments on the currency’s surge. Chief Economist Philip Lane set a tougher tone on Friday, signaling more monetary stimulus may be needed. Global stocks remain on track for the first back-to-back weekly declines since March after a rally that added $7 trillion to U.S. equity values. The pandemic is continuing to upend the global economy, with U.S. data showing cracks in recent labor-market strength and virus cases continuing to climb globally. “When you see these short-term, sudden moves after a run-up like we’ve had, it doesn’t mean you avoid the sector, but you have to be prepared that it’s the price of admission of being there,” said Charles Day, a managing director and private wealth advisor at UBS Global Wealth Management. “We still think investors should stay invested, we’re still positive on equities.” In other markets, crude oil hovered above $37 a barrel in New York and gold dipped. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose, ending a seven-day losing streak. Lofty tech valuations “don’t mean much” with interest rates so low, says Florence Barjou, deputy CIO at Lyxor Asset Management. Markets: European Open. (Source: Bloomberg) Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh, and Ksenia Galouchko