A Covid-19 testing site in New Delhi, India, on Sept. 28. Global coronavirus cases approached 34 million, with Germany reporting the highest number of infections since April amid a resurgence in Europe.  Israel saw a record 8,919 new cases after a dip in numbers over the holiday weekend. European regulators are set to start an accelerated review of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine, even as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is reported to have widened its investigation into a trial participant who fell ill. U.S. carriers American Airlines Group Inc. and United Airlines Holdings Inc. will start laying off a combined 32,000 workers as they contend with the unprecedented collapse in travel demand. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention extended a ban on cruises in the U.S., saying further action is needed before cruises can safely resume. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc laid out plans to raise as much as 5 billion pounds ($6.5 billion) in new financing, boosting the jet-engine maker’s diminishing reserves amid a collapse in demand for the planes it powers. Rolls has been one of the biggest casualties in a sector hard hit by the coronavirus crisis, with its shares down more than 80% this year and touching a 17-year low Wednesday. Israel posted a record 8,919 new coronavirus cases in a single day, the Health Ministry said, following a dip in numbers due to low testing over the long weekend, which included the Yom Kippur holiday. The new infections brought the total number of cases since the beginning of the pandemic to over 248,000, including more than 1,500 fatalities. The government imposed a country-wide lockdown two weeks ago, and tightened restrictions last week. Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower has quarantined 342 migrant workers in a government facility following the detection of a new Covid-19 case, according to a statement. An investigation found that safe living measures hadn’t been strictly enforced within the affected dormitory block where the case was residing. The 342 dorm residents work for 27 employers. India’s Supreme Court ordered local airlines to refund tickets booked for travel during a nationwide lockdown earlier this year, dealing a blow to an industry already strapped for cash. The court’s verdict also mandated airlines to issue credit vouchers even for tickets booked for travel outside the lockdown period, if the flights were later canceled due to virus-related restrictions. French car sales fell for the second straight month in September in a sign consumer demand remains depressed in one of Europe’s biggest markets as the effects of a cash-for-clunkers program dwindles. Passenger car registrations fell 3% compared with the same month last year, according to a statement published Thursday by industry group CCFA. Demand has bounced around in recent months as the government tries to get the economy back on track despite a second wave of Covid-19. Germany’s daily coronavirus cases rose the most since late April, while the infection rate fell below a key benchmark of 1.0 for the first time in five days. There were 2,442 new cases in the 24 hours through Thursday morning, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That’s still far short of gains of almost 7,000 at the peak of the pandemic in the spring, but officials are still worried about a new wave of the disease stretching the health-care system and are urging citizens to respect distancing and hygiene rules. Germany extended a risk warning to the whole of Belgium, and included all of France except the Grand-Est region, the country’s RKI public health institute said. It also added Northern Ireland and Wales to the list. Macau gaming revenue showed little sign of improvement, notching a sixth straight month of declines of at least 90%, as a gradual relaxation of travel and visa curbs by China has so far brought few visitors. Gross gaming revenue fell 90% to 2.21 billion patacas ($277 million) in September from a year earlier, according to data from the Gaming Inspection & Coordination Bureau. That was worse than the median analyst estimate for an 86% decline. Japan’s big cities may be a gourmet lover’s dream, but like other international metropolises, their restaurants and inns are getting battered by the pandemic. Of 563 Japanese companies that filed for bankruptcy due to factors related to the Covid-19 outbreak this year, 24% are those that operate either restaurants or hotels and inns, according to credit research firm Teikoku Databank Ltd. That compares with just 9.6% of all bankruptcies last year. India reported another 86,821 coronavirus cases on Thursday, bringing the total confirmed number to 6.31 million, government data showed. Covid-19 related deaths rose to 98,678. Germany will unveil a draft law that would give employees the legal right to work from home, within the next few weeks, Labor Minister Hubertus Heil told the Financial Times, the latest example of how the pandemic is altering working life. The law would seek to ensure workers have the option of working from home and regulate home office work. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention extended a ban on cruises in the U.S. by a month, to Oct. 31, saying in a statement that further action is needed before cruises can safely resume. It said data from March through September show more than 3,600 Covid-19 or Covid-like cases on cruise ships in U.S. waters, and at least 41 reported deaths. n An industry health panel jointly convened by Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. last week submitted a report to the CDC outlining 74 steps the companies hope will clear the way to U.S. sailings. The measures include a recommendation of Covid-19 tests for all guests and crew members. CDC Director Robert Redfield’s recommendation to extend the so-called no-sail order into next year was overruled at a White House meeting, Dow Jones reported earlier, citing an unidentified federal official. American Airlines Group Inc. and United Airlines Holdings Inc. will start laying off thousands of employees as originally scheduled, spurning an appeal from U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin as he negotiates with Congress about extending payroll support for U.S. carriers. The cuts are the latest among tens of thousands of job losses announced by blue-chip companies in a 24-hour period, after Walt Disney Co. said late Tuesday that it’s slashing 28,000 workers in its slumping U.S. resort business. On Wednesday, Allstate Corp., the fourth-largest car insurer in the U.S., said it will cut 3,800 jobs, roughly 8% of its workforce. Meanwhile, AirAsia Group Bhd. is closing down its operations in Japan, the Nikkei reported, after the low-cost airline posted a record quarterly loss in August. Japan’s ruling party will consider additional economic stimulus to prop up the economy amid the pandemic, and will compile another extra budget if needed, Toshihiro Nikai, the secretary general of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party told the Nikkei in an interview. The comments come as a the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey found sentiment at large manufacturers picked up from its lowest point since the global financial crisis, helping cement the view that the worst economic impact from the pandemic is over. Ruling coalition party leader Natsuo Yamaguchi said voters don’t want an early election and are keen for the new government to tackle the economic and social fallout from the coronavirus pandemic. Singapore is planning to allow so-called cruises to nowhere in what could be among the first of measures to reopen leisure travel in the city-state, the Straits Times reported. The cruises will have a maximum occupancy of 50%, and could give some relief to cruise operators. European regulators are set to start an accelerated review of a Covid-19 vaccine front-runner from the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc, according to a person familiar, which could be key step forward for the shot after trials were halted earlier this month due to concerns about a trial participant who fell ill. However Reuters also reported that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had widened its investigation of the incident that led to the trial halt. U.S. authorities have yet to approve the restart of the trial there. Texas virus hospitalizations jumped almost 3% for the biggest one-day increase in more than three weeks, according to state health department data. The number of Covid-19 patients hospitalized in he Lone Star state rose by 93 to 3,344, an 8.5% increase since the caseload bottomed out 10 days ago. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is resuming job cuts as the coronavirus pandemic outlasts the financial industry’s resolve to offer jittery employees stability through the economic downturn. The firm is embarking on a plan to eliminate about 1% of its workforce, or roughly 400 positions, according to people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified as the information isn’t public. The move comes even as the firm’s core trading and dealmaking businesses are booming. Persistent outbreaks in the U.S. are forcing the nation’s biggest banks to re-examine plans to wait out the turmoil as initially hoped. Wells Fargo & Co. and Citigroup Inc. were among the first to restart cuts. Mississippi is ending its statewide mask mandate and easing some social-distancing rules after cutting new coronavirus infections in half and Covid-19-related hospitalizations by two-thirds, Governor Tate Reeve, a Republican, announced at a news conference. Watch: Johns Hopkins Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine Lauren Sauer discusses ongoing coronavirus restrictions and positive new developments in testing and treatments. (Source: Bloomberg) Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.6% as compared with the same time Tuesday to 7.21 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase matched the average daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose to 206,494. The U.K.’s coronavirus outbreak is not under control as hospitalization and death rates rise, Boris Johnson’s chief scientist said. “Numbers of cases are going up, hospitalizations are going up, ICUs are going up, and unfortunately, very sadly so are deaths,” Government Chief Scientific Adviser Patrick Vallance said. “We don’t have this under control at the moment.” The bleak assessment from Vallance came as the prime minister warned he’ll impose tighter national restrictions if needed. The U.K. on Wednesday recorded more than 7,000 cases of Covid-19 for the second day running: the two highest daily tallies since the start of the pandemic. Watch: U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he doesn’t want to return to a national lockdown as the nation’s Chief Scientific Adviser Patrick Vallance warns that the number of Covid-19 cases are “headed in the wrong direction.” (Source: Bloomberg) The NFL has its first postponement due to Covid-19, a troubling milestone for a league with scant capacity for scheduling changes. The Tennessee Titans were scheduled to play the Pittsburgh Steelers on Oct. 4, but after eight Titans players and staff tested positive, the team was forced to shut down its facility Tuesday. Members of the Tennessee Titans huddle during warmups before a game in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on Sept. 27. Photographer: Hannah Foslien/Getty Images — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland, Andrew Blackman, and Alisa Odenheimer