Global coronavirus cases are nearing 30 million, with the death toll approaching 1 million. New York City delayed in-person school classes for the second time. A gauge of the Covid-19’s spread in Florida reached the highest level in 10 days. Arizona reported the most new cases in almost seven weeks. Moderna Inc. released details of a plan for analyzing the data from its Covid-19 vaccine trial, offering an unusual under-the-hood look at the study of a top vaccine candidate. “We want to make sure the general public has trust in vaccines by being transparent,” Chief Executive Officer Stephane Bancel said in an interview. India reported almost 98,000 new infections, a daily record that adds to the world’s second largest tally. European car sales plunged by nearly a fifth in August, suggesting the market may remain depressed for the rest of the year. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Arizona on Thursday reported 1,753 new virus cases, the most for a day since Aug. 1. The surge -- a 0.8% increase compared with 0.2% for the prior seven-day period -- brought the total number of cases to 211,660. The state Department of Health Services recorded 38 new Covid-19 deaths, bringing the toll to 5,409. New York recorded 896 new virus cases, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Twitter. It’s a 0.2% increase that matches the previous seven days’ average. Florida reported 674,456 cases on Thursday, a 0.5% rise from a day earlier that compares with an average 0.4% increase in the previous seven days. That’s a daily change of 3,255 cases, according to the health department report, which includes data through Wednesday. On a seven-day rolling basis, new cases totaled 19,725, the highest in a similar period since the Sept. 7 report, marking an upward trend from recent lows. Still, weekly case counts are about a quarter of peak levels during July. Deaths among Florida residents reached 13,086, an increase of 1.1%, or 147. Deaths often trail infections by weeks and generally take even longer to be reflected in the data. Portugal reported the most new cases since April, an increase of 770 that brought the total to 66,396. The number of Covid-19 patients in hospital and ICU care fell. Portugal reported more than 600 confirmed cases on six of the last nine days. Authorities on Tuesday set a nationwide cap of 10 people for most public gatherings, expanding a rule in place in Lisbon. The previous limit outside the capital was 20. New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a revised schedule for in-person schools that will delay kindergarten through eighth grade openings to Sept. 29 and middle and high schools until Oct. 1. Learning will begin remotely Sept. 21 for all but pre-kindergarten pupils and those with severe developmental disabilities. The number of Americans applying for jobless benefits resumed its decline, signaling a gradual improvement in the battered labor market. Jobless claims in regular state programs decreased by 33,000 to 860,000 in the week ended Sept. 12, which coincides with the reference period for the government’s monthly jobs report, according to Labor Department figures released Thursday. Continuing claims, the total number of Americans on state benefit rolls, fell by almost 1 million, to 12.6 million, in the week ended Sept. 5. Economists expected initial claims of 850,000 and continuing claims of 13 million, according to median estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Austria is banning indoor meetings of more than 10 people from Monday after bars, clubs and private parties have turned into a major driver of new infections. “We are noticing that we have an exponential increase of infections,” Chancellor Sebastian Kurz told journalists in Vienna. “We have to react now to avoid a second lockdown.” Mask requirements are also widened to include markets and religious services and now have to be worn in restaurants while not seated, Kurz said. The 7-day average of daily new infections has risen for 12 straight days and more than doubled in that period to 658 as of Thursday. The number of active virus cases passed 7,000, a level last seen during the lockdown in April. The International Atomic Energy Agency didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment about how the new regulations would affect its annual general conference next week, at which hundreds of diplomats are scheduled to convene to discuss nuclear energy and concern over Iran’s program. Meanwhile in Slovenia, which confirmed 104 new cases on Thursday, the government is limiting working hours for bars and restaurants to 6:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.. Masks, which are already mandatory in closed public spaces, will also have to be worn in crowded open spaces, such as markets and city centers. Employers will need to measure temperature of their workers and visitors. Moderna released details of its plan for analyzing data from its Covid-19 vaccine trial. It has now enrolled 25,296 of an expected 30,000 volunteers, and more than 10,000 have received two doses of the vaccine, according to a statement released ahead of an investor meeting on Thursday. Moderna’s trial is only likely to generate clear positive results at the first analysis if it turns out to be very highly effective, reducing Covid-19 cases by 74% or more. If the vaccine turns out to be a more modest 60% effective, the trial might have to proceed to the final efficacy readout in order to generate clear results, according to the 135-page trial protocol. The company aims to create public confidence that it is doing everything it can to ensure a vaccine is safe and effective, said Chief Executive Officer Stephane Bancel. Bancel said the most likely scenario was that Moderna’s vaccine could generate preliminary efficacy data in November. Iran reported 2,815 new cases and 176 deaths in the past 24 hours, bringing the total tally to 413,149 total infections and 23,808 casualties respectively. Infections have been rising for the past two weeks. CORONADX, a project funded by the European Union, is developing a coronavirus test that they say provides results in less than one minute. The test is expected to be ready before the end of 2020 and will initially be available in Denmark before being deployed in other countries. The test uses antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 that are fixed to microscopic latex beads. If a patient’s sample contains the virus, the antibodies bind to the viral particles and bring the latex beads along, forming a visible clump. The reaction occurs within seconds and can be done on a small, inexpensive paper strip. CORONADX says the PATHAG test will be non-commercial. A funding gap is the latest obstacle in Kenya’s coronavirus battle as the Senate failed to decide on disbursements, prompting several county-run health facilities to begin limiting services on Thursday as they run out of resources for staff and supplies. Health-care workers have threatened a strike over poor working conditions, including the lack of adequate personal protective equipment. The nation’s health managers have also expressed frustration with political leaders from both the ruling party and the opposition because they openly flout social-distancing policies. Kenya has 36,393 confirmed cases and 637 deaths, according to the Ministry of Health. BioNTech SE is buying a German manufacturing site with capacity to churn out 750 million vaccine doses a year, more than doubling the amount the company can produce. The purchase from Swiss pharma giant Novartis AG shows the German biotech’s confidence in the experimental vaccine it’s developing together with U.S. partner Pfizer Inc. and China’s Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co. The company also said it expects results of the Phase III vaccine trial at the end of October or early November. A Czech government official recommended tighter social-distancing measures after the country reported a daily record of 2,139 new infections. While most cases have mild symptoms, hospitalizations will continue to rise, according to Roman Prymula, the government’s envoy for medical research. Europe’s car sales fell 18% in August, snapping a three-month streak of easing declines and suggesting that the market could remain depressed through year-end. The Stoxx 600 Automobiles & Parts Index fell as much as 2.3% in early trading. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has held firm against calls by the country’s auto industry for more state aid, despite some of her ministers calling for additional help. India discovered nearly 98,000 new coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours, a new daily record that further added to what’s already the world’s second largest tally of confirmed cases. Among the new cases is Nitin Gadkari, India’s transport minister, the second top aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get infected. Meanwhile, the country’s central bank governor reportedly said economic recovery will be slow and it is “battle ready” to provide support as needed. There were 1,855 new cases in Germany during the 24 hours through Thursday morning, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That’s the most since September 8. It brought the total of the country to 266,869, while fatalities increased by 6 to 9,373. On Wednesday, the infection rate dropped to the key threshold of 1.0. Sinopharm’s inactivated Covid-19 vaccines have been given to children, teenagers, adults and the elderly in Phase-III clinical trials and are currently being used under emergency authorization, People’s Daily said, citing the company’s coronavirus vaccine research team. Australian unemployment unexpectedly fell as government subsidies and central bank stimulus saw the labor market withstand Victoria’s renewed lockdown, with more than half of the jobs lost from the Covid-19 outbreak recovered. The jobless rate dropped to 6.8% from 7.5% in July versus the economists’ median estimate of an increase to 7.7%, data from the statistics bureau showed Thursday in Sydney. Employment surged by 111,000 in August, far better than an expected 35,000 drop. The participation rate gained to 64.8%, compared with an estimated fall to 64.6%. South Korea added 153 more cases in 24 hours versus 113 a day earlier, bringing the total tally to 22,657, according to data from Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. Cases with unknown origin account for 26.4% of total between September 4 and 17, hitting a record high, the data showed. Of the 2,013 infections reported over the past two weeks, 532 cases were categorized as infections with unknown transmission routes. The number of new cases had been trending down since South Korea temporarily strengthened its social distance measures for greater Seoul following a church-linked outbreak last month that raised the tally to more than 400 daily infections. But the latest uptick in the percentage of cases without a clear transmission route suggests South Korea is still struggling to contain the spread. New Zealand suffered its worst economic slump since the Great Depression in the second quarter as a strict nationwide lockdown brought the country to a standstill. Gross domestic product plunged 12.2% from the first quarter, Statistics New Zealand said Thursday in Wellington. That’s the biggest three-month contraction since quarterly records began in 1977. Economists forecast a 12.5% decline. From a year earlier, the economy shrank 12.4%, the most recorded in comparable official data dating back to 1955. New Zealand is going through a sharper but shorter economic shock than it experienced during the depression, when GDP fell 5.3% in 1931 and a further 7.1% in 1932, according to academic research. Nor is the Covid slump as bad as initially feared. The South Pacific nation succeeded in eliminating community spread of the virus, allowing it to emerge early from lockdown, and indicators suggest growth surged in the third quarter as consumers went on a spending spree. Trump administration officials pulled $700 million from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the key health agency involved in protecting the public from infection, to fund the Operation Warp Speed effort to develop drugs and vaccines, according to people familiar with the matter. The money came from funds Congress appropriated to the CDC in stimulus legislation earlier this year, said the people, who asked not to be named because the matter isn’t public. The CDC received about $7.5 billion in stimulus funds this year to respond to Covid-19, on top of its annual appropriation. A vaccine could be distributed widely to the public as early as October, President Donald Trump said on Wednesday, contradicting statements by some of his top health officials that ranged between the end of March and the end of 2021. “What we’ve done with the streamlining” has “been incredible,” Trump said during a news conference. The president said earlier comments by Robert Redfield, the director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, that disbursement of the vaccine some time in late spring or summer of next year were “a mistake.” “I think he misunderstood the questions,” Trump said. Watch: President Donald Trump says a coronavirus vaccine could be distributed widely to the public as early as October, contradicting statements by some of his top health officials that ranged from the end of March to the end of 2021. (Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Katerina Petroff, Seyoon Kim, Kara Wetzel, Matt Turner, Shinhye Kang, Andrew Blackman, David Herbling, David Malingha, Boris Groendahl, Jan Bratanic, Joao Lima, and Jonathan Levin