Photographer: Eric Piermont/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Eric Piermont/AFP via Getty Images Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Billionaire Patrick Drahi is offering 2.5 billion euros ($3 billion) to shareholders to take Altice Europe NV private, in a bid to end five years of share volatility at the French telecommunications company. Drahi, the founder and largest shareholder, will pay 4.11 euros a share through his Next Private vehicle, the companies said in a statement Friday, valuing the entire company at 4.9 billion euros. The offer represents a 24% premium over Thursday’s closing price, and the shares jumped as high 4.22 euros in early trading Friday. The offer “undervalues the company materially – and so we would recommend that shareholders do not accept the offer,” Russell Waller, analyst at New Street Research, said in a research note. “But we do have some sympathy with Patrick Drahi for taking the company public given the depressed valuations.” Altice’s debt levels have contributed substantial volatility in the shares in recent years, an issue cited in the statement as supporting the move to delist the company. Though performance at its French SFR unit has improved, it nevertheless faces pressure to both invest heavily in fiber broadband while reducing borrowings. Telecom and Media group Altice founder Patrick Drahi attends the inauguration of the Altice Campus in Paris on October 9, 2018. Photographer: Eric Piermont/AFP via Getty Images The statement didn’t indicate how much of his own money he would contribute, though it did say the purchase price will be covered with a term loan provided by BNP Paribas SA. The move could allow Drahi to focus more on his fast-growing U.S. business. Drahi bought Suddenlink in 2015 and Cablevision in 2016 with a plan to create another U.S. cable giant. He’s now back on the U.S. M&A trail. Altice USA last week offered $7.8 billion to buy Canadian cable company Cogeco Inc.’s U.S. assets and sell the rest to Rogers Communications Inc. However, Drahi will be taking on a significant debt load. Net debt dropped to 29 billion euros in the second quarter from 31.2 billion euros at the end of March, and the company has stuck to a goal of delivering to a target of 4 times to 4.5 times net debt to Ebitda. Next Private will support the group’s deleveraging strategy, and will use “commercially reasonable efforts” to prevent damage to the group’s credit ratings. Altice Europe is rated B at Standard & Poor’s, five levels below investment grade. The grade has a negative outlook, indicating it could fall further. A mass of leverage has never been a problem for the debt king, whose business mantra has long been to buy everything on credit. In the 1990s he used a student loan of 50,000 francs to set up his first cable business in a tiny Provencal town, and through a series of deals amassed the communications empire he runs today. The stock is down about 42.2% since the start of the year, more than the 17% drop in the Stoxx Telecommunications index. It is unclear whether shareholders will agree to a premium below recent levels -- Altice was trading at over 6.5 euros a share in early February. The delisting highlights the pressure Europe’s phone companies face in rolling out the latest communications technology while facing a squeeze on revenue from regulation and the pandemic. The slump in share prices at Orange SA and Telefonica SA both resulted in their recent expulsion from benchmark indexes. It’s the second time this month a major European TMT company has discussed delisting from public markets. Germany’s startup factory Rocket Internet SE said on September 1 it would withdraw its shares from the Frankfurt and Luxembourg stock exchanges. European telecom deals have surged in the third quarter after a slow start to the year, with more than $17 billion announced before today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. — With assistance by Thomas Pfeiffer, and Nate Lanxon