Asian stocks dropped with U.S. and European futures Thursday after Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell highlighted uncertainty about the economic rebound. The dollar advanced against major peers. Shares in Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea dipped, with stocks in the region on course to end a five-day run of gains. S&P 500 futures slipped about 1%. The U.S. benchmark erased gains on Wednesday to end the session lower after Powell said policy will remain accommodative while cautioning that the pace of economic activity will likely slow. A tumble in tech giants such as Apple Inc. and Facebook Inc. weighed on the index. The offshore yuan retreated. The Treasury yield curve steepened slightly as Powell stopped short of offering new specifics on the Fed’s approach to the monthly bond purchases that have buttressed markets. Some traders may have been expecting signals regarding plans to target longer maturities. Fed officials have stressed in recent weeks that the U.S. recovery is highly dependent on the nation’s ability to better control the coronavirus, and that further fiscal stimulus is likely needed to support jobs and incomes. “The recovery has progressed more quickly than generally expected,” Powell said, while cautioning that “the path ahead remains highly uncertain.” It was the Federal Open Market Committee’s final scheduled meeting before the U.S. presidential election on Nov. 3. “The lack of any new measures saw risk markets a little underwhelmed,” said Stephen Miller, investment strategist at GSFM. “I suspect that is an indicator of latent impatience with the lack of fiscal support.” The Bank of Japan kept its asset-purchases and bond-yield targets in place. Next up Thursday are policy decisions by Bank Indonesia and the Bank of England. Meanwhile, the White House strongly signaled Wednesday that it is willing to increase its offer in talks with Democrats, and that Senate Republicans should go along in order to seal a stimulus deal in the next week to 10 days. Elsewhere, oil dropped back below $40 a barrel in New York. Gold declined. These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Rita Nazareth, Claire Ballentine, Joanna Ossinger, and Cormac Mullen