A municipal worker clears weeds from the Spanish Steps in Rome. To help defray maintenance costs, the city is asking private companies to sponsor historic sites. Brands, Romans, countrymen, lend me your sponsorship! So goes the call to arms for the city of Rome, whose revered yet financially burdensome historic center faces a dire new threat: devastating budget cuts due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Italian capital has often sought out novel approaches to finance the monumental task of restoring and maintaining its sprawling stock of fountains, statues, historic palazzi and ancient archaeological sites. The city’s latest idea is a two-year deal with Confindustria, a national association of thousands of Italian companies, which will facilitate “acts of patronage and sponsorship” toward a list of sites and monuments in need of funds. It’s a long list: Central Rome’s 1,430 hectares of UNESCO World Heritage land — twice the size of Central Park — is thought to be the largest of its kind in the world. Some projects are modest: The Fountain of Neptune in Piazza Navona is in need of 230,000 euros ($270,000) for its restoration. Others are more ambitious: The city is asking for 70 million euros ($83 million) to help maintain Rome’s vast network of ancient walls and 200 million euros ($238 million) for maintenance in the city’s huge public parks, such as the Villa Borghese and the Villa Doria Pamphili. One priority: the Ludus Magnus, the largest of Rome’s gladiatorial schools, which is near the Colosseum. Built by Emperor Domitian and dating back to the 1st century AD, the site was discovered in 1937, but in its current, neglected state cannot be visited by the public. “Preserving a historical center of such an enormous size in its entirety is very expensive, yet laws and norms for its protection have been enforced since the Middle Ages, and increasingly identified as integral to Rome’s identity,” says Salvatore Settis, one of Italy's leading archaeologists and art historians. “Nevertheless, degradation of monuments sometimes more than 2,000 years old is inevitable, and unstoppable. Looking for additional funding in order to make maintenance at such a gigantic scale practicable is obviously a good idea.” Maintenance of cultural heritage in Italy is a complex matter, with responsibility for two millennia worth of sites shared between the central government, the city, and other public institutions such as the Fondo Ambiente Italiano, a national trust that restores and maintains heritage sites. Roma Capitale, the municipal government, invests 2.4% of its budget in heritage maintenance — compared with less than 1% paid out by the state’s coffers nationwide. The current funding crisis has been triggered by the collapse of Italian tourism. Visitor spending typically accounts for 13% of the Lazio region’s entire GDP. But due to the coronavirus pandemic, according to research by the World Travel & Tourism Council, Italy is set to lose more than 36 billion euros ($42 billion) through drastically reduced tourism. Rome is set to receive 9.9 million fewer tourists, compared with last year. Meanwhile, time continues to take its toll on the Eternal City, with or without the tourists that keep it alive. “It’s largely on the city’s shoulders to preserve this immense cultural heritage for future generations,” says Luca Bergamo, Rome’s deputy mayor. “But the coronavirus pandemic is showing that you cannot depend on mass tourism and the income that it brings to preserve heritage.” According to Bergamo, the city’s “experimental” sponsorship scheme is the first time a private collective association has agreed to heritage funding. Sponsors — not only those that are part of Confindustria — will be able to make offers for funding and restoration for specific sites, in a public and transparent process that will let other prospective donors make counter-offers. In exchange, they will be entitled to display logos on-site and in publicity materials. “It will shorten the connection between the public authority and the donors,” he says. “Places like Rome or Florence or Venice have a symbolic role in people’s hearts — they trace to the roots of our civilization.” Filippo Tortoriello, president of Unindustria, which oversees the Rome network of Confindustria, says that private sponsorship along these lines is now inevitable and a duty for businesses. “Our companies are ready to do their part to support the great beauty of the city,” he says. “The care of this patrimony cannot be delegated only to the public administration, but also the effort of private individuals is needed.” Business sponsorship of cultural attractions in Italy isn’t new: Austerity cuts over the last decade led the city to seek donors to fund preservation efforts. In 2012, ornate stucco reliefs crumbled from the Trevi Fountain, the late-Baroque masterpiece in Rome’s Trevi district, and in 2013 experts lamented the “black rust” — a coating of pollution, pollen, algae and fungus — that was covering the façade of the Colosseum. Fendi forked out €2.2 million ($2.6 million) on the Trevi Foundation in 2015, Bulgari spent €1.5 million ($1.8 million) on the 18th-century Piazza di Spagna in 2016, and the same year Tod’s paid €25 million ($29.7 million) to help restore the Colosseum. In a way, a resurgence of private sponsorship riffs on models of patronage with ancient roots. In the 15th century, the House of Medici, the Italian banking family, funded the construction of Saint Peter’s Basilica and were patrons of Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo and Raphael. Going further back, the Colosseum was originally known as the Flavian Amphitheater, after Emperor Vespasian of the Flavian dynasty, who commissioned it around 70 A.D. as a brand-building gesture to shore up his popularity with the masses. (Like many a corporate sponsor, however, the Flavian dynasty seems to have lost its naming rights after several centuries.) But the Confindustria deal will bring a level of institutionalization and formality to the practice of monument sponsorships not yet seen before. With the pandemic hammering local budgets and tourism revenue down throughout Europe, such an approach could well proliferate globally in places with historic assets. “Every city around the world is looking at how to diversify income,” says Andy Westlake, chairman of the European Sponsorship Association, a membership association for the sponsorship industry. “Sponsorship is always the low-hanging fruit in terms of generating revenue. It feels like a space that, if done well, cities can successfully generate revenue for heritage.” Still, some critics are leery of the scheme. “While corporate sponsorship of public infrastructure may generate revenue for a city, it also sends a message that the public sphere is up for sale to the highest bidder,” says Reuben Rose-Redwood, director of the Critical Geographies Research Lab at the University of Victoria. “In the future, perhaps parts of cities will be closed to the public and you might have to pay fees to enter.” Some critics of corporate support see these arrangements as efforts to “culture-wash” problematic brands. In the U.K., for example, the Tate Modern art gallery faced backlash from climate groups over its long-standing relationship with oil giant BP, which ended in 2017. Christer Gustafsson, professor in conservation at Uppsala University, says that financial realities will require continued private-sector support. “We have so many more monuments to preserve than 50 years ago, and at the same time we don’t have the amount of financial support in the public sector,” says Gustafsson, vice chairman of the expert panel for European Heritage Label, a program managed by the European Commission that recognizes heritage sites. “But there could be many negative sides. There’s a growing privatization of public space. In the future, perhaps parts of cities will be closed to the public and you might have to pay fees to enter.” Previous European forays into monument sponsorship have seen mixed results. In 1925, André Citroën rented the Eiffel Tower and had the name of his car company embellished across it using 250,000 lights; few seemed to object to the arrangement at the time. It was a different story in 2010, when giant billboards for the likes of Coca-Cola and Bulgari went up on Venice’s Bridge of Sighs and the Palazzo Ducale during their restorations, causing public outrage. Banking on corporate sponsors to save Italy’s crumbling monuments could risk a similar backlash, if the benefactors’ branding is too overt. No one wants to see a Leaning Tower of Gucci. “If you commercialize something too much, you will destroy your own investment,” says Gustafsson. “That’s why I’m optimistic. The historic dignity of the monuments must be fully preserved without transforming them into mere backdrops for commercial advertisement. Besides, if we want to preserve heritage, we need money for it.”