China began testing a nasal spray vaccine for the coronavirus in what would be a world first. Hungary, Slovenia and Ukraine reported a record number of infections. Japan and Singapore plan to open a reciprocal green lane for travel next week, while global cases topped 28 million. French President Emmanuel Macron will meet with his government Friday to discuss how to curb a surge in coronavirus infections without endangering a tentative economic recovery. Munich Re has stopped selling coverage to protect against business losses in future pandemics. U.K. lawmakers are urging the government to extend wage support. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The results of India’s first nationwide serological survey suggests that more than six million people were infected with the coronavirus as early as May, which would place the country well ahead of the current official tally in the U.S. The findings in one of the only nationwide serological surveys that’s been conducted confirm suspicions that infections are being vastly under-counted, especially in places where testing is inadequate like India and the U.S. Hungary reported a daily record of new coronavirus infections as Prime Minister Viktor Orban vowed to get tough with those skirting pandemic rules, which he said was essential avoid another crippling lockdown. Hungary had 718 new positive tests for Covid-19, taking active cases to 6,264, more than doubling in the past week, according to data published by the government’s task force on Friday. An adviser to Orban has said the real case count may be up to 20 times that, taking into account Hungary’s relatively low rate of testing. Elsewhere in Europe, Ukraine reported a new record of 3,144 cases on Friday and the government approved additional restrictions in some areas, including Kyiv. Slovenia confirmed a record 108 new infections as well. While the number of positive cases is on the rise, testing is also increasing. Israel will enter a second coronavirus lockdown, becoming the only developed country to shut down again nationwide after a botched reopening of the economy sent infections soaring. An inner cabinet of ministers late Thursday approved a two-week, full-fledged lockdown, to be followed by two more weeks of strict restrictions on movement and economic activity. After that, if the situation improves, limitations will be applied only to communities with large outbreaks. Details, such as the start date, are to be submitted to the full cabinet for final approval Sunday. French President Emmanuel Macron will meet with his government Friday to discuss how to curb a surge in coronavirus infections without endangering a tentative economic recovery. France recorded close to 10,000 new cases Thursday, the most since the lockdown ended in May, and the seven-day rolling average has been steadily climbing for more than three weeks. Macron said that his government has important decisions to make to contain the disease, which is circulating actively in major cities including Marseille and Lyon. Munich Re has stopped selling coverage to protect against business losses in future pandemics after the German reinsurer took a 1.5 billion-euro ($1.8 billion) virus-related hit in the first half. “We are currently examining whether we will offer new contracts that include pandemic protection in property and casualty insurance in the future,” Torsten Jeworrek, Munich Re’s head of reinsurance, said in an interview. “For the moment it has been suspended, for example with respect to event cancellations.” The company will continue to cover pandemics in its life and health contracts. The newest Covid-19 vaccine candidate to start human testing is the first where volunteers won’t get a painful injection. Instead, they’ll receive a spray through the nose. China on Wednesday approved phase I human testing for the nasal spray vaccine, which is co-developed by researchers at Xiamen University and Hong Kong University, as well as by vaccine maker Beijing Wantai Biological Pharmacy Enterprise Co. Intranasal spray has previously been developed as a vaccine for the flu and is recommended for use among children and adults who want to avoid the more common needle injection. While it is not the most frequent choice for delivery, scientists around the world are working to develop sprays as an alternative to muscle jabs for all sorts of vaccines. Singapore reported its 18th new virus cluster in dormitories for migrant workers in less than three weeks, signaling a setback in the city-state’s strategy for containing the coronavirus outbreak by mass testing them and restricting their movements. Two new clusters linked to previous cases were identified at dormitories where 55 of the nation’s 63 latest Covid-19 cases were confirmed on Thursday, according to a statement from the Ministry of Health. Singapore and Japan will begin a reciprocal green lane for business and official travel on Sept. 18, according to a joint government press statement. Safeguards will include pre-departure and post-arrival testing as well as a controlled itinerary for the first 14 days in the receiving country. The Philippines has signed confidentiality agreements with five foreign drugmakers, including a manufacturer from Taiwan and a second one from China, to begin talks for potential Covid-19 vaccine supplies, according to a CNN Philippines report. Australia’s Seqirus Pty Ltd., China’s Sinovac Biotech Co. Ltd., Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute, and Taiwan’s Adimmune Corp. could do clinical trials in the country, CNN Philippines said in a Twitter post, citing Jaime Montoya, executive director of the Philippine health research council. Singapore Airlines Ltd. is eliminating about 4,300 jobs, or 20% of its workfoce, as the coronavirus outbreak devastates the aviation industry. The cuts will be made at Singapore Airlines and its SilkAir and Scoot units. Discussions are underway with unions and arrangements will be finalized as soon as possible, the carrier said in a statement late Thursday. The job losses are the first at Singapore Airlines since the SARS outbreak in 2003. Leaders of more than 150 New York City corporations and financial firms called on Mayor Bill de Blasio to pay more attention to a declining quality of life, as the city struggles to contain the Covid-19 pandemic that has ravaged its economy. In a letter sent to the mayor Thursday, the chief executives of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Blackstone Group Inc. and other prominent companies acknowledged the city’s accomplishment in limiting the spread of the virus. But they said they were losing confidence in the city as a place that feels safe for people to live and work. “Despite New York’s success in containing the coronavirus, unprecedented numbers of New Yorkers are unemployed, facing homelessness, or otherwise at risk,” the letter states. U.S. regulators issued their first sanction against a meatpacker connected with a deadly Covid-19 outbreak: a $13,494 fine against Smithfield Foods Inc. that drew criticism as inadequate from at least one senator, a former safety official and a major national union. Nearly 1,300 workers at Smithfield’s Sioux Falls, South Dakota, plant tested positive for the virus, 43 were hospitalized and four died between March 22 and June 16, according to inspection documents. The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration said in a statement that the fine was the maximum allowed by law. Smithfield is owned by the Hong Kong-based WH Group Ltd. The meatpacking industry was an early epicenter of coronavirus as the disease rapidly spread among its often poorly paid immigrant employees working in close quarters. In a tweet, Democratic Senator Cory Booker, one of several who highlighted the toll the pandemic has taken on frontline workers, called the fine “paltry.” Brazil reported 40,557 cases, up from 35,816 the previous day, for a total of 4,238,446, according to the Health Ministry’s website. That represented a 1% rise compared with an average daily increase of 0.7% over the previous week. Visitors have their temperatures taken outside of the Museum of Tomorrow, during its reopening in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on Sept. 5. Photographer: Andre Coelho/Bloomberg Another 983 deaths were reported in the nation with the third worst outbreak after the U.S. and India. That compares with 1,075 the day before, for a total of 129,522 fatalities. — With assistance by David Scanlan, Will Davies, Rudy Ruitenberg, Melissa Cheok, and Philip Heijmans