Robbery gear found in former Baltimore Police Department Sergeant Wayne Jenkins’ vehicle after he was indicted. Photo: U.S. Attorney's office Photo: U.S. Attorney's office After the death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore in 2015, all eyes were on the police officers accused of causing the fatal spinal injury Gray suffered while in police custody, and on the prosecutor who took the bold and unusual step at the time of criminally charging the cops who arrested Gray. As the trials of these officers went forward with a series of acquittals and dropped charges (the case ended with zero convictions), something sinister was going on in the background. Members of a Baltimore police unit known as the Gun Trace Task Force, which had been tasked with getting firearms off the streets, were using their police powers to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars in money and drugs, and then selling the drugs for cash. Their aggressive pursuit of people they believed to be easy targets — mostly alleged drug dealers — resulted in jail time and convictions for the victims of these thefts, but also extensive violence and even deaths, all built upon the fabrications and deceit of these officers. Along the way they were racking up extensive fraudulent overtime. In one egregious incident during the wave of unrest after Gray’s death, the group’s leader, then-Sergeant Wayne Jenkins, stopped a looter in a pharmacy, but then took the stolen drugs for himself and passed them off to a drug dealer. In another much earlier incident, police planted heroin in a car after a high-speed chase turned fatal, covering up what started as a botched robbery. In 2017, federal prosecutors rooted out the scheme, indicting eight of the officers and securing convictions against all of them. But as Baltimore-based journalists Baynard Woods and Brandon Soderberg write in their new book,  I Got a Monster: The Rise and Fall of America’s Most Corrupt Police Squad, removing these particular officers didn’t eliminate the problems that allowed their behavior to go unnoticed. This rogue task force was operating within a culture that allowed and in some ways incentivized their behavior by valuing the recovery of guns and drugs without as much concern over tactics. That backdrop has parallels to the current reckoning over urban policing. The book describes how Baltimore deployed a “cop counter-insurgency in the form of emboldened plainclothes police squads known as knockers or jump-out boys, who prowled the city looking for trouble.” Similar tactics have emerged during this summer of protests over police violence, including the jumping out of federal officers on protesters in Portland, and scenes by local plainclothes police units in New York City and  Pittsburgh. At a moment when President Donald Trump is perpetuating a narrative of citizen-led chaos and violence in cities, Woods’ and Soderberg’s depiction of Baltimore during this period tells a different story. There, public demand for proactive policing in the face of a crime spike encouraged officers to exacerbate criminal activity even as they claimed to be fighting it. As the authors write: “If you strip away the contemporary discourse surrounding policing, the scenes that make up this book, which play out on the streets of Baltimore, have more in common with a conventional understanding of war and battle than anything that would be considered policing in any other time or place in the world. And because it is a war, where all is fair and stakes are high, police command and politicians looked the other way as long as plainclothes units racked up arrests and brought in the statistics.” On the streets, they write, these “counterinsurgency techniques did little to stop the violence, and, by targeting violence-intervention groups, stealing drugs and money, and disrupting the underground economy of the streets, they often engendered it. Afraid of criminals and cops alike, more and more Baltimoreans armed themselves for protection.” I talked to Woods about the task force, and its connection to the current discussions about reform and accountability. Our conversation is edited for clarity and length. You described this group of cops as “America’s most corrupt police squad.” But of course you have all of these snippets in your story about how this kind of culture infects the whole department. Jenkins was a supervisor in two departments and there are a number of scenes in which he is coaxing people under his supervision into committing crimes with him. Can you talk about this culture and what it tells you about the extent to which this is an isolated gang versus something more widespread? The reason that we chose that subtitle was because of that, sort of: Everyone had been doing corrupt things with other squads before they came together. At some point, we call them a supergroup of grimy cops. I think from when Jenkins joined the police department in the early 2000s there was this widespread culture of corruption. Some of the cops testified that on plainclothes squads, especially, stealing was the way to build trust. You knew you had to count on these people to have your back and to protect your life in dangerous situations. This was one of the ways that they did that. Over those 20 years there have been so many Baltimore police officers indicted on drug-dealing charges. What you were asking about Jenkins pushing other people to do other crimes, that’s a kind of contagion. It’s a way to help us think about how corruption works within departments and how it becomes so widespread within particular places. Places become hot spots for corruption just like we have hot spots for murder or hot spots for Covid. Baltimore is definitely one of them. “Every time there’s a spike in violence, there have been calls for proactive plainclothes policing again and we forget about any of the kinds of reform.” In a post-industrial city like this, a generation or so ago working-class people had a lot more options of what they could do for employment. By the time we roll around to the Martin O’Malley [mayoral] administration, we get this situation where the only option really is the drug war. The drug war becomes the economy for a huge part of the city. So you can decide where you want to go there, either to the cop side or to the dealer side. I think both Jenkins and Gondo (two of the indicted police officers) realized from very early on, if not before they even joined [the force], that you could also split the difference and be both at the same time. And when police officers don’t care about what is truth at all, they can cause just far more damage than a lot of people imagine. You noted in a recent column the connection between how federal officials were behaving in the Portland protests and how this Gun Trace Task Force operated in Baltimore. As you pointed out, these tactics of so-called jump-out boys are common in many police departments. What is Baltimore's policy on these kinds of plainclothes undercover units in the wake of the Gun Trace Task Force scandal? It’s a fascinating dance. It hasn’t been much different in the wake of it than it’s been after all of the other plainclothes scandals in the last decade. One of the reasons why it’s so hard to talk about the Gun Trace Task Force is because of this alphabet soup of the names of these squads. They change them every time a big scandal comes, and they say they’re getting rid of plainclothes, they’re reforming plainclothes, and then they end up doing the exact same thing but they have it under a different name. So when VCIS — “violent crime impact section” — got caught in a big scandal, they changed it to “violent crime impact division.” When the “special enforcement team” got in trouble they changed it to “special enforcement section.” But they didn’t announce they were creating a special enforcement section with the same guys. And that’s basically what happened but at a bigger level here. Immediately, the commissioner said he was disbanding plainclothes, getting rid of this kind of stuff. And of course they’re still doing the same kind of thing in terms of proactive policing. Every time there’s a spike in violence, there have been calls for proactive plainclothes policing again, and we forget about any of the kinds of reform. We’re willing to look the other way again, because we want them to get the bad guys with guns, as Baltimore police commissioners really like to say. Editor’s note: After our conversation, the Baltimore Police Department once again announced that most plainclothes units would wear uniforms and work out of marked cars. New York City disbanded its plainclothes units in June. A lot of protests over police violence are focused on police use of firearms, but actually the stories of the GTTF reveal the ways in which police used cars — as tools to intimidate and detain people, but also as tools of violence. Of course, there is a history of this in Baltimore. Freddie Gray’s death exposed this tactic known as the “rough ride” in which police tied his hands and feet, but allowed his body to bounce around in the van. Talk about the ways in which cars are used as weapons by the police. Every cop show or movie we've seen for much of our lives involves cops crashing cars and having car chases and it’s important to remember that all of these guys grew up watching the same stuff that we grew up watching. And this is what they I think believed good policing looked like. I think Jenkins was especially susceptible to that. He weaponized cars to a great extent. He had one technique called a door pop, where any time there’s a group of Black men standing around in West Baltimore he would drive up, slam on the brakes, and one of the officers would pop the door, and the people would run. If they ran, they would then go and tackle them, see what they had. In one case, Jenkins was coming up on a guy and just ran over him in his car. He didn’t have anything. The whole plainclothes mission is to have guys — and occasionally not guys — in these unmarked cars jumping out at people and causing chaos. Or as we saw in that recent New York video with the warrant apprehension task force, just taking people and throwing them into the unmarked car. All of those are specifically automotive ways to control the parts of Baltimore that are more susceptible to this kind of behavior. They’re also parts where car ownership is less, public transportation use is greater and people end up being out in public on the street more. They specifically use their cars to terrorize in that environment. And then when people are in cars they use every infraction, such as seatbelts, to justify a stop. I want to cover some of the accountability mechanisms. Let’s start with federal prosecutors, who investigated and charged these guys. This was  under Rod Rosenstein, at the time the regional U.S. Attorney, who later became Trump’s deputy attorney general. How did that come about? I mean, it’s a crazy story. To me it says a lot about the way that law enforcement works because the U.S. Attorney’s office and FBI are getting a great deal of praise for rooting out this corruption thing. But it really was them doing what they always do, which is going after Black people selling drugs. The deputy sheriff in Harford County, a largely white county outside of Baltimore, started tracing opioids. Whenever someone would overdose in his county, he would try to find out where they got the heroin. One of the places he traced it back to was a dealer in Baltimore. They put a tap on that dealer’s phone and they heard that one of the officers in the Gun Trace Task Force, Momodu Gondo, was helping him. That allowed them to then get a tap on Gondo’s phone. Almost immediately after that, Jenkins took over the squad and they said, “Oh, a new sergeant might rein this in.” Then they realized he was stealing drugs off of almost everyone that he saw. One more note is that during the whole period that the book takes place, the Department of Justice was in Baltimore doing its investigation [into policing after Freddie Gray]. The DOJ’s office was directly next to the Gun Trace Task Force and they didn’t stumble upon it at all. The DOJ Civil Rights Division appeared to look at civil rights abuses by police officers acting as police officers, not to uncover some of the gang activities that they were doing as well. You chose to make defense lawyers, particularly one who ran to replace state’s attorney Marilyn Mosby and lost, very prominent characters in your book. How did you think about the role of defense lawyers in this story as you were writing it and particularly as an accountability mechanism? There are two different kinds of defense lawyers in the book. There’s Ivan Bates, who is a pretty high-priced lawyer for the bigger kinds of clients that they’re robbing. And then there are the public defenders, who are defending people — I mean, one of the people that police rob was a homeless man. Between these two kinds of lawyers, they hear all of the stories about city cops. The real short answer is if you want to know about dirty cops, ask a defense lawyer. Over the last generation, we’ve let the drug war just destroy the Fourth Amendment. While we’ve had all of these debates about the First and the Second Amendment, the Fourth Amendment has just really been demolished. And it’s been primarily if not only defense attorneys that have been really fighting. “Places become hot spots for corruption just like we have hot spots for murder or hot spots for Covid.” The title of public defender is one I think about a lot. Defense attorneys, that is what they are doing: defending against this kind of overreach. But it does have its limits because, you know, it’s not your job as a defense attorney to say, “Hey my client had more drugs than these police officers say.” That’s why Bates decided to run for state’s attorney. He was frustrated with the limits of being a defense attorney, with what he could do with the information that he had, because his number-one job was to defend his clients’ interests rather than the public at large’s interests. Did you look at other attempts at accountability that might have failed during this period? For example, what about the local Civilian Review Board, an independent agency that is supposed to take complaints about law enforcement from the public? It’s been rendered largely toothless, so there are a lot of efforts to strengthen it and it’s getting slowly and slowly stronger. But the Law Enforcement Bill of Rights here thwarts almost all efforts at accountability like that because it affords such great protections and privacy to police officers regarding civilians knowing anything about them. Any other reform mechanisms that failed here? So one of the themes in the book is the way that these officers are able to subvert so many of the reform mechanisms. The [Assistant] U.S. Attorney Leo Wise said that when you have someone like Jenkins who is faking video evidence for things, it makes the hope that body cameras are going to be the cure-all just evaporate before your eyes. Because they see how they can manipulate all of these kinds of reform mechanisms for their own advantage. Body cameras are almost a character in the book. In your narrative, these officers seem to be operating with almost complete impunity before the arrival of the cameras. But after, the officers were to some extent able to manipulate them to their advantage. Do you think the cameras have been a net benefit for accountability? Yes, but in a very qualified way. Even before the body cameras they would fake footage. I just got phone camera footage where cops had broken a guy’s jaw, and they kinda got him to say that he ran and then he fell. They get him to say what they want him to say. But it’s clear from the wiretapping and everything else that they knew their days of street robbing at the level that they had been doing were over with body cameras. And not just because of body cameras but because of all of the other cameras. As the cameras increased, that’s been when Jenkins’ close calls have come. When they cause a car crash, they’re really worried about the CCTV street cameras. That’s why they were really ramping up their game to try to make as much money as they could before the cameras came in. The degree to which they were afraid of them does make me think that they’ll help with accountability a little bit. But even so, there’s a cost that they are largely used as tools against defendants. By and large, body cameras are still surveillance tools of the state. Sometimes they also catch police officers who are committing crimes, but most of the time they’re still in control of the police officers and they’re used to justify arrests, not to show their own guilt. Journalism has an important role to play in accountability. You and I worked together during the period when these police crimes were happening, covering Baltimore during the trials of the officers in the Freddie Gray case. But we had no idea this was going on. Knowing what you’ve learned through this research, what if anything do you think you would or could have done differently to root out what was really going on with Baltimore police? My way into writing about policing has always been about defense attorneys. I think I would have pitched a piece deep inside the public defender’s office and I think I would have found a lot more things the police officers were doing just by hanging out there. The thing I think we did right in that same regard is that while all the other reporters were in Officer [William] Porter’s trial, I went upstairs to the trial of Greg Butler, the guy who was arrested while stabbing a fire hose [that was used to put out a fire in a CVS] and he was looking at a lot more time than [the officers] were looking at. I think that we need to listen to the people who are the victims of police violence a lot more carefully than we have been. Look for a lot more of the Freddie Grays who lived rather than focusing where everyone else is focusing. Tell me about the kinds of people these officers were targeting in their heists. How were they tailoring their search for people they viewed as good targets for victims of their crimes, essentially? The way the U.S. attorneys put it, which I thought was a really good phrasing, was they thought the people they were targeting were beneath the law, and they thought they were above the law. Typically they’d use all of the law enforcement and intelligence they had. So like there’s a gun register that if you’ve been convicted of a gun-related crime you get put on a list, and they would use that to then go target people. One of the guys I was writing about recently said, “What am I gonna tell the judge? I didn’t have the gun on me this time?” He’d been arrested with guns in cars before. The cops knew people’s histories. They specifically targeted people that had criminal records because they knew they wouldn’t be believed. A lot of times, people get caught with a bunch of drugs and they don’t get arrested and the cops just keep the drugs. And they’re willing to accept that because it’s better than going to jail. Now in other cases, this other guy Davon Robinson, one of the really tragic stories, they stole $10,000 from him and later the killers followed him from the court date and killed him when he got out of the car in front of his daughter over a debt. Think of all the people they stole money from who had to go back to their thugs or whatever and say, the cops stole the drugs, the cops stole the money. It caused endless trouble for people outside of the legal system as well as inside the legal system. And either way people weren’t necessarily willing to listen to them because of their criminal history. The system is so rigged against citizens in general but specifically people who are in the system that are really not believed.