Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg European stocks dropped for a third day on concern that rising virus cases will lead to tougher travel restrictions. Oil retreated, while Treasuries rose. Airlines and travel companies led losses in the Europe Stoxx 600 Index. HSBC Holdings Plc’s shares fell to the lowest since 1995 and European bank shares dropped following a story by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists on lapses in suspicious activity reports. U.S. equity futures retreated and the dollar index was little changed. Taiwan’s dollar strengthened to a level not seen in seven years. With virus cases climbing across Europe, there’s growing speculation that London might be heading for a second lockdown. U.K. Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty is set to warn on Monday that the U.K. is at a “critical point” and Germany’s health minister said the trend of cases in Europe is “worrying.” In Asia, equities trading was subdued. Japan’s stock market was shut for a holiday. The Hang Seng Index slid 1.5%, while equities in China and Australia also retreated. Investors remain watchful for any signs of progress on a U.S. fiscal stimulus package, while Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell will testify before Congress from Tuesday to Thursday to discuss pandemic relief efforts. “We do have concerns down the stretch about the markets reacting poorly to some of the uncertainties facing us -- the election, potentially around Covid-19, and the fact that we don’t have a stimulus package yet,” Rebecca Felton, senior market strategist at Riverfront Investment Group, said on Bloomberg TV. “I would have to think we could be volatile to the downside here.” Elsewhere, the European Central Bank has launched a review of its pandemic bond-buying program to consider how long it should continue and whether its exceptional flexibility should be extended to older programs, the Financial Times reported. Despite global equity valuations remaining close to an almost two-decade high, fund flow data show money is continuing to move into U.S. stocks. With the Fed anchoring interest rates near zero for the foreseeable future, profits are expected to recover somewhat from the pandemic-induced malaise. “We’ve been reasonably optimistic toward the equity market for quite some time,” Jun Bei Liu, fund manager at Tribeca Investment Partners, said on Bloomberg TV. “The fundamental economic recovery seems to be on track. Over the next 6-12 months we do see substantial earnings improvement.” Melissa Hathaway, president at Hathaway Global Strategies, discusses the TikTok-Oracle deal and what it means for the future of the company. Source: Bloomberg These are the main moves in markets: