Boris Johnson chairs the weekly Cabinet Meeting in London on Sept. 30. Photographer: Pippa Fowles/10 Downing Street Photographer: Pippa Fowles/10 Downing Street Boris Johnson struck a deal to win over rebels in his Conservative Party with a promise to give Parliament the chance to scrutinize new coronavirus restrictions before they become law, averting a damaging political defeat. Health secretary Matt Hancock announced Wednesday that for “significant national measures” affecting the whole of England or the U.K., the government will consult with members of Parliament and “wherever possible” give them a vote before the rules come into force. Hancock’s statement, at the start of a debate on the renewal of existing Covid-19 measures, was welcome by leading Tory rebels Graham Brady and Steve Baker but another senior Conservative, former Cabinet minister Mark Harper raised concerns that the promises did not go far enough. “We are always looking to listen, to learn, to improve the response as much as possible,” Hancock said in the House of Commons, as he urged legislators to back the government’s pandemic laws. The Tory rebellion over the virus measures is symbolic of a wider disquiet over Johnson’s leadership during the Covid-19 crisis. Some Conservatives fear he is losing his grip after a summer of u-turns and a succession of missteps in his government’s handling of the pandemic. The premier’s authority was undermined further on Tuesday when he had to apologize for not knowing the social distancing rules for northeast England. Johnson will attempt to regain control over his strategy when he holds a press conference with his key advisers later on Wednesday. The prime minister had been warned that more than 100 of his own members of Parliament were preparing to vote against the government if he refused to compromise -- more than double the number needed to defeat him. They had backed an amendment by Brady demanding that new rules must only come into force if Parliament has been given the chance to debate and vote on them first. House of Commons speaker Lindsay Hoyle did not select the rebel amendment for a vote but there was growing anger in the Tory party over the apparent failure of ministers to consult MPs over local lockdowns and social distancing rules. Hoyle accused the government of treating Parliament with “contempt” and said he would “give very sympathetic consideration” to applications from lawmakers for urgent questions or emergency debates, which would force ministers to come to Parliament to explain themselves. The government had argued that it must be able to act quickly and implement new rules where necessary to contain the virus.