President Donald Trump announced his “Platinum Plan for Black Americans” at the Cobb Galleria Centre in Atlanta on September 25. Photographer: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images In his efforts to woo African-American voters before the election, on September 25 President Donald Trump unveiled a plan to shovel capital, jobs and opportunities into Black communities — a program that his campaign is calling the “Platinum Plan for Black America.” For Black communities, the Platinum Plan commits to unlocking $500 billion in access to capital, creating 3 million new jobs, and bridging historic disparities in health care and education. School choice, criminal justice reform and favorable trade deals for Black farmers and manufacturers round out the list of the president’s platinum promises. The campaign pledges that Trump will even make Juneteenth a national holiday if he is reelected, building on the credit that the president has taken for making Juneteenth “very famous.” Trump, who frequently boasts that he’s done more for African Americans than any president since Abraham Lincoln, faces long odds with Black voters. A new  Washington Post–ABC News poll finds that Black voters are backing former Vice President Joe Biden over Trump by 88% to 9% — about the same rate that they preferred Hillary Clinton over Trump (88% to 8%) in 2016. Other polls suggest that about 10% of Black voters continue to back Trump, including in key swing states — a level of support roughly in line with past Republican presidential candidates. The GOP has worked to nudge these numbers upward, since it could mean the margin of victory in close states with large African-American electorates, such as Michigan and Pennsylvania. During the Republican National Convention in August, a host of non-white speakers appeared to testify that Trump isn’t racist, despite his history of divisive rhetoric on race and relentless attacks against Black Lives Matter protests over police brutality. Releasing a half-trillion-dollar pledge on the eve of the first presidential debate might represent Trump’s best chance to persuade a larger share of African-American voters that his reelection is in their best interest. But Lawrence Brown, visiting associate professor with the University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute, is not convinced. “He calls it a ‘Platinum Plan,’ but it’s more like a Nickel Plan offered by a zirconium president,” he says. As a campaign pledge, the Platinum Plan resembles previous federal policies to bring indirect spending to struggling communities, says Brown, who is the author of the forthcoming book The Black Butterfly: The Harmful Politics of Race and Space in America. Trump’s new pitch may remind African Americans that the benefits from these earlier place-based incentive programs largely failed to materialize in their neighborhoods or businesses. “Corporations who receive lucrative tax breaks are the main entities to benefit” from such policies, Brown says. Brown compares the Platinum Plan to the Opportunity Zones program, part of the tax cut package passed in 2017. That program promised to boost investment in economically distressed communities by allowing investors to take a tax break on capital gains that had been invested via specially administered funds into poor areas. While the program has generated more than $10 billion in investments so far,   very little of it has reached existing businesses in these communities, according to the Urban Institute. There are far fewer Black-owned real-estate opportunities to soak up these investments than for other racial groups, and the promised influx of local jobs failed to materialize. The Platinum Plan promises to open up $500 billion in federal contracting opportunities in Black communities via infrastructure spending. It’s not clear in the final plan where this funding will come from, or how the campaign arrived at this figure, although in the summer the administration was  weighing a $1 trillion infrastructure bill. House Democrats went further — the House passed a $1.5 trillion infrastructure bill in July — but Senate Republicans refused to take action on it. Senate Republicans have similarly failed to pass any follow-up coronavirus stimulus after the CARES Act. Even if more spending were forthcoming, past precedent suggests that it would be unlikely to make it to historically redlined communities or neighborhoods with low incomes and high unemployment. Brown sees other missing pieces in the president’s plan. “There's nothing regarding addressing medical apartheid, housing segregation, the legacy of redlining, or the harms of root shock as a result of serial forced displacement,” he says. “He doesn’t even have a plan to allocate additional resources to Black communities which have been devastated by Covid-19.” Some Platinum Plan promises appear to clash with other White House agenda priorities, above all the president’s dog-whistle appeals to maintain segregation in the suburbs. Boosting health-care coverage and lowering medical costs for African Americans sit uneasily aside the GOP commitment to strike down the Affordable Care Act (and Trump’s recent nomination of a potential Supreme Court justice who has expressed a desire to do just that). Trump’s pledge to expand school choice comes just days after he signed an  executive order banning the use of  The 1619 Project, a major New York Times Magazine initiative on Black American history, in school materials. The Platinum Plan also lands on an unclear link between “law and order” and social justice, with a vow to designate lynching as a federal hate crime and prosecute both the Ku Klux Klan and the leaderless anti-fascist movement known as antifa. “Antifa has never lynched a Black person. The K.K.K. has lynched thousands,” Brown says. “If he was serious about making lynching a hate crime, he would crack down on police violence and white militias, which both FBI Director Christopher Wray and Acting Homeland Security Director Chad Wolf have identified as the ‘most persistent and lethal threat’ in the United States.” In theory, at least, there are elements of the Platinum Plan that mirror programs and ideas that advocates of Black economic empowerment have long supported. Policies to support and expand Community Development Financial Institutions, for example, could help to steer lending and capital to communities that have struggled historically to generate wealth. The Platinum Plan calls for boosting the authority of the Minority Business Development Agency, something that Black scholars have recommended to mitigate rather than perpetuate disparities in wealth and access to capital. Putting such policies in place might show that the Republican Party wants to compete for the support of African Americans, not merely profile them for vote suppression, as the U.K.’s Channel 4 reported about Trump’s 2016 election push this week. But that would require support from Republicans in the Senate — support that Brown doubts would be forthcoming. Instead, he says, the Platinum Plan is “a Trojan horse designed to feign interest and concern in the welfare of Black communities.”