Stocks trimmed losses as a rebound in tech giants tempered concern over cloudy prospects for more economic stimulus and a report detailing suspicious transactions at global banks. Treasuries and the dollar climbed. After approaching the threshold that many investors consider to be a market correction, the S&P 500 came off session lows as the Nasdaq 100 climbed. Commodity, industrial and financial shares still led the benchmark gauge to its lowest in almost two months, with JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. sinking more than 2%. Carnival Corp. and American Airlines Group Inc. paced losses in travel companies on worries that an increase in virus cases could prompt further lockdown measures. Equities extended their September selloff as a new investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists says some big global banks “kept profiting from powerful and dangerous players” in the past two decades even after the U.S. imposed penalties. Meanwhile, the eruption of a partisan battle over replacing Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg damaged already-slim prospects for another round of fiscal stimulus. Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats released a stopgap government funding bill without support from the White House or Senate Republicans -- raising the risk of a federal shutdown at the end of the month. As U.S. deaths related to Covid-19 approached 200,000, former Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said he expects the nation to experience “at least one more cycle” of the virus in the fall and winter. Germany’s health minister warned that the trend of cases in Europe is “worrying” amid expectations that restrictions could soon be extended to London. “Maybe there are worries we will see another wave of lockdowns. We also have U.S. political risk rising,” according to Jeffrey Kleintop, chief global investment strategist at Charles Schwab Corp. “There are some concerns there could be more fines in place on financial-services institutions,” and that could further hit earnings estimates, he said. Elsewhere, oil slid after Libya signaled the resumption of some crude exports. Silver and gold tumbled. These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh, Gregor Stuart Hunter, Anchalee Worrachate, Lynn Thomasson, and Vildana Hajric