New Zealand will retain its social distancing requirements until at least mid-month to make sure a virus outbreak in Auckland peters out. Australia’s hotspot Victoria state recorded 81 new virus cases overnight, after warning against easing lockdown measures too quickly. As Covid-19 cases surge on U.S. campuses, a New York state university sent students home for the semester and Indiana University warned of “uncontrolled spread” at fraternities and sororities. Brazil passed 4 million cases. Globally, the Latin American nation now lags only the U.S. in both cases and deaths from the disease. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said New Zeland will retain its current social distancing requirements until at least mid-month in order to make sure that the coronavirus outbreak in Auckland, its largest city, is halted. Authorities will next review Covid-19 alert level settings on Sept. 14 and won’t change them before midnight on Sept. 16, she said. While Auckland has exited a level-3 lockdown, new cases among close contacts are still reported daily. Hong Kong’s new universal testing blitz has identified six infections, initial results showed, a sign the campaign could uncover hidden infections despite limited participation. Healthcare workers collect a swab sample from a person at a testing center for the government’s Universal Community Testing Programme at Queen Elizabeth Stadium in Hong Kong on Sept. 1. Photographer: Anthony Kwan/Getty Images/Bloomberg The asymptomatic infections emerged after 128,000 people were sampled in the first days of a China-backed voluntary drive to offer everyone in the city a free test. Some 884,000 residents had signed up as of Thursday, less than the hoped-for 3 million turnout. The city-state reportedly found two more virus clusters in previously cleared worker dormitories -- a day after three other dorms previously cleared were found to have clusters. The city-state had 48 new cases on Thursday, with 41 of those in dorms, according to the Ministry of Health. Dorm housing for low-paid foreign workers has made up the majority of the country’s cases. South Korea added 198 more coronavirus cases in 24 hours, according to data from the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, remaining below 200 for a second straight day. A worker sprays disinfectant inside a Super Rapid Train bullet train in Seoul, South Korea on Aug. 27. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg The country -- which has battled a resurgence of Covid-19 after early success containing the disease -- now has 20,842 total cases. The hard-hit country reported 5,937 more virus cases -- bringing its total to 616,894 -- according to data released by the Health Ministry Thursday night. There were 513 new deaths. The surge of cases in North and South Dakota showed no sign of easing, as each state reported a daily increase of cases with numbers significantly higher than two months ago. North Dakota reported 360 cases, up from 267 the day before and the second highest on record. South Dakota reported 334 cases, up from 254 the day before and more than triple the worst day in July. South Dakota reported Thursday that 118 people in the state were infected because of the Sturgis motorcycle rally Aug. 7-16, the Rapid City Journal reported. They are among several hundred cases reported in about a dozen other states. On Wednesday, Minnesota reported the first virus death from a person who attended the rally. Brazil reached the mark of 4 million confirmed coronavirus cases, doubling the infection count in two months as large parts of the Latin American nation emerge from isolation. A Health worker performs a COVID-19 rapid test in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil on Sept. 3. Photographer: Bruna Prado/Getty Images The country reported 43,773 new cases on Thursday, pushing the toll to 4,041,638. Deaths rose by 834 to 124,614, according to data from the Health Ministry. Indiana University urged students at fraternities and sororities to “re-evaluate” living there after outbreaks in Greek housing showed positive-test rates as high as 87%. “IU’s team of public health experts is extremely concerned that Greek houses are seeing uncontrolled spread of Covid-19,” the university said in a statement. “This poses a significant risk to the nearly 2,600 students currently living in Greek or other communal housing organizations, as well as to the other 42,000 IU Bloomington students.” Fraternities and sororities are privately owned and the university does not have the authority to close them, the statement said. Texas double counted almost 300 prisoners with the virus after they were transferred to another county as Hurricane Laura approached last week. When the 281 inmates were shuttled 140 miles (225 kilometers) inland from coastal Jefferson County to Walker County, they were entered into the Texas database as “new” Walker County diagnoses, the state health department said in a footnote on its website on Thursday. They have since been deleted from Walker County’s tally. Statewide, Texas added 3,899 new cases on Thursday, bringing the cumulative total to 625,347, health department data showed. Hospitalizations continued their downward trend, dipping to 4,075, the lowest since June 22. Authorization of a Covid-19 vaccine by Nov. 1 when U.S. health officials have told states to be prepared to distribute shots is “extremely unlikely but not impossible,” Moncef Slaoui, chief scientific adviser to Operation Warp Speed told NPR’s All Things Considered on Thursday. “There is a very, very low chance that the trials that are running as we speak could read before the end of October,” Slaoui said, referring to when data on a vaccine’s safety and effectiveness could be available. He also said there will likely be about 15 million to 20 million vaccine doses available by the end of the year and enough to immunize the U.S. population by the middle of 2021. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 0.7% as compared with the same time Wednesday to 6.13 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase matched the average daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.8% to 186,293. An employee wearing a protective mask cleans a table inside a restaurant in Miami, Florida on Aug. 31. Photographer: Eva Marie Uzcategui/Bloomberg The State University of New York at Oneonta plans to send on-campus students home and cease all in-person classes for the rest of the fall semester after a Covid-19 outbreak. The college in upstate New York had 389 confirmed cases since the start of the semester Aug. 24. The college had begun a two-week “pause” period on Aug. 30 in order to focus on testing while limiting the spread of COVID-19. California reported 5,125 new cases, a 0.7% increase and roughly in line with its 14-day average. The state recorded 164 new deaths, exceeding the two-week average of 117, for a total of 13,327 virus fatalities. Still, there were more signs of improvement in the state’s outbreak, with hospitalizations dropping 4.5% to 3,604 patients, the lowest in almost 11 weeks. Watch: Anthony Fauci, the U.S.’s top infectious disease expert, said that seven states that have seen upticks in Covid-19 cases should be particularly vigilant over the Labor Day holiday, and warned that if Americans are “careless” there could be another jump in cases this fall. Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Karen Leigh, and Ian Fisher