The Food and Drug Administration said it’s working expeditiously under White House pressure to approve the first Covid-19 vaccine for U.S. deployment, which could begin as early as Monday. California’s daily new cases rose to a record with intensive-care availability at a low. Indoor dining at New York eateries will halt on Monday, dealing a setback to social and economic life, after Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city breached virus benchmarks and new cases went “way too high.” Even so, New York’s surge remains less deadly that in the spring. France’s pace of infections increased further and Germany registered record cases and deaths. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID California reported a record 35,468 new coronavirus cases Friday, a 2.4% increase from the previous day, and 159 deaths. The state’s tally now sits at 1.49 million infections and 20,622 fatalities in total. A stay-home order was imposed on about two-thirds of the state’s population over the weekend as the availability of intensive-care unit beds declined. Hospitalizations jumped 3.6% in 24 hours to a record 12,940 patients. Just 1,450 ICU beds remain available in the state, the fewest since data were tracked at the start of the outbreak. California’s test positivity rate of 9.7% is the highest since an earlier peak in April as the virus continues its spread in the latest wave. U.K. health authorities reported 21,672 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to more than 1.8 million since the pandemic began. Deaths increased by 424 to 63,506, according to government data on Friday. A snow leopard at the Louisville Zoo in Kentucky is the first in the U.S. to test positive for Covid-19, according to the Agriculture Department. Test results are pending for two other snow leopards at the zoo showing signs of a respiratory illness. The animals were probably infected by an asymptomatic zoo employee, USDA said in a statement. The department has previously confirmed Covid-19 infections in minks, tigers, lions, dogs and cats in the U.S. The World Health Organization will review vaccines by Pfizer, Biontech, Moderna and Astrazeneca over the “next couple of weeks,” to determine whether to grant them emergency-use licenses, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said Friday. Several countries and global procurement agencies such as UNICEF rely on WHO’s pre-qualification services for vaccines and drugs, Swaminathan said. Meanwhile, while the vaccination campaign’s start in the U.K. is “light at the end of the tunnel,” WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus urged individuals not to relax their guard as the festive season approaches. France’s pace of new cases increased further over the past week, with the seven-day average of daily cases approaching 12,000 on Friday, according to official data. Prime Minister Jean Castex on Thursday canceled plans to reopen theaters, museums, cinemas and sports facilities next week as the government’s target for reducing average new cases to 5,000 a day by Dec. 15 remains out of reach. In contrast, hospitalizations and the number of patients in intensive care are still declining after peaking in mid-November. A New York state panel of public-health advisers approved a Food and Drug Administration committee’s backing for emergency use authorization of the Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE vaccine, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Twitter. The state expects to receive 170,000 doses of the vaccine this weekend and 346,000 doses of a Moderna Inc. shot during the week of Dec. 21, he said. “The vaccine is almost here,” Cuomo said. Governor Andrew Cuomo will close indoor dining at New York City restaurants after coronavirus statistics surpassed benchmarks. Outdoor dining and takeout can continue. New York recorded 10,595 new cases statewide, Cuomo said on Twitter. It’s the third consecutive day of more than 10,000 cases. Cuomo said hospitalization rates across the state are increasing dramatically, and called them the “ultimate cause for concern,” even though the death rate has dropped to 8% from 23% in the spring and there are 30% fewer intensive-care patients. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is scrutinizing reports of allergic reactions to Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine as it readies an emergency-use authorization. There have been reports of serious allergic reactions to the vaccine in the U.K. After starting immunizations Tuesday, the U.K.’s National Health Service said people with a significant history of allergies shouldn’t receive the shot. The FDA is seeking more information on the reactions from the U.K. drug regulator, Marion Gruber, director of the Office of Vaccines Research and Review, told a committee of agency advisers Thursday. New York Mayor Bill de Blasio reported 2,559 new Covid-19 cases, saying the number is “way too high,” and a seven-day average positive-test rate of 5.35%. “Indicators have all unfortunately surpassed their thresholds,” the mayor said on Friday at a briefing. The daily rate of hospitalizations is 2.48 per 100,000 residents. It has been above a threshold of 2 per 100,000 for several days. Assuming federal government approval of a vaccine by the weekend, the city plans to begin distribution “in a matter of days,” focusing on front-line health-care workers and nursing homes first, de Blasio said. It will open a vaccine command center Monday, and a task force will partner with 200 community organizations to ensure fair and equitable distribution. Twenty-seven Black and Latino communities that bore the brunt of the virus will get priority in vaccine distribution, de Blasio said. Portugal reported a record 95 deaths on Friday, four more than the previous high on Nov. 16. Cases increased by 5,080, according to the Health Ministry, less than the daily record of almost 7,000 recorded three weeks ago. Patients in intensive-care units fell by two to 507. Singapore is tightening border measures in light of the worsening outbreak in Hong Kong, according to the city-state’s health ministry. All travelers entering Singapore from 11:59 p.m. on Sunday who have a travel history in the past 14 days to Hong Kong will be required to serve a 14-day stay-home notice at dedicated facilities. New Mexico officials are prohibiting hospital acute care facilities from performing non-essential surgery through Jan. 4 as Covid-19 cases stretch the state’s health care system, the Santa Fe New Mexican reported. The state also issued an emergency order on crisis care standards, which would permit hospitals to ration care, the newspaper said. The U.S. may start vaccinations “Monday or Tuesday of next week,” Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” The FDA intends to proceed toward emergency use authorization of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, he said. Speaking separately on Fox Business, Azar said AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson U.S. trial data readouts may come in early to mid-January, with an FDA authorization process “hopefully” proceeding soon after that. The FDA said it will “rapidly work toward finalization and issuance” of an emergency use authorization following Thursday’s advisory meeting on Pfizer and BioNTech’s Covid vaccine. The agency said it had notified the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Operation Warp Speed so they can execute plans for vaccine distribution. FDA is finalizing the necessary documents to ensure that patients and providers have the information that they need to make informed decisions and to safely administer the vaccine. This is a critical part of what the agency does to promote and protect the public health. London Mayor Sadiq Khan said urgent action was needed to avoid tightening lockdown measures after the city reported 4,144 new virus cases on Thursday, more than the 2,550 on Wednesday. Londoners have made monumental sacrifices this year. Nobody wants our city to face Tier 3 restrictions.But with cases rising, we're at a tipping point. We all have a responsibility to do everything we can to follow the rules and stop the virus spreading. https://t.co/S0RyirU7rt The European Union’s member states agreed that they will all receive the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for Covid-19 at the same time and start administering it to their populations on the same day or week, Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa said after an EU summit in Brussels. AstraZeneca Plc will start clinical trials of a combination of its own vaccine and Russia’s Sputnik V inoculation, the company said in statement. “Combinations of different Covid-19 vaccines may be an important step in generating wider protection through a stronger immune response and better accessibility.” Germany’s daily coronavirus cases and deaths rose the most since the outbreak began, as the rapid spread of the disease is prompting authorities to consider a hard lockdown over the holiday season. Deaths rose by 604 in the 24 hours through Friday morning and cases increased by 32,734, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Germany has closed bars, gyms and cinemas while allowing other businesses and schools to continue operating. — With assistance by Marton Eder, Stepan Kravchenko, Lenka Ponikelska, Jan Bratanic, Boris Groendahl, Corinne Gretler, Niclas Rolander, Aaron Clark, Catherine Bosley, John Lauerman, Joao Lima, Shelly Banjo, Martin Z Braun, Stacie Sherman, Rudy Ruitenberg, Kara Wetzel, and Linus Chua