America’s political geography — exemplified by its anachronistic Electoral College system — is organized around states, but its economic geography is organized around metropolitan areas. Looking at the metro election provides important insights into America’s political and landscape and its divides. An analysis of the 2020 election with my University of Toronto colleague Patrick Adler shows that Republicans continue to capture many more metros, while the Democratic vote is concentrated in the nation’s largest metros. Alongside its deepening density divide, America’s electoral geography is riven by class. This election cycle, at least as much as in the last several, Trump and the Republicans drew overwhelming support from White, working-class regions of the country, while the Democratic vote remains concentrated in smaller number of denser, more affluent, highly-educated coastal metros and college towns. Breakdown of presidential votes by metropolitan area Sources: Tony McGovern, U.S. Census Bureau, analysis by Patrick Adler  The interactive map above breaks down the 2020 vote across America’s 350-plus metros areas. The blue dots, indicating metros where Biden won, line the coasts, with middle of the country a veritable sea of red dots that went for Trump. The few blue dots in the interior of the country are big metros like Detroit and Chicago and even more frequently knowledge-intensive college towns like Ann Arbor and Madison. Overall, Biden won considerably fewer metros than Trump, taking 144 or 41% of metros, to 205 metros or 59% for Trump. But Biden captured a significantly greater share of the overall metro vote, winning 54% to Trump’s 44%. Notably, metros where Biden won a majority of the vote are home to 57% of the population and 79% of the country’s total economic output. Trump won more metropolitan areas, but they are home to a smaller portion of the U.S. population, and a sliver of the U.S. economic output Source: Brookings Institution, Census Bureau and Tony McGovern, analysis by Patrick Adler  The average Biden metro is home to almost 1.3 million people, more than four times the size of the average Trump metro, with just slightly more than 300,000 people. As metros get smaller in size, Biden’s share of the vote drops off, while Trump’s rises. The larger the metro area, the more Democratic it is Sources: Brookings Institution, Tony McGovern, analysis by Patrick Adler  What are the underlying characteristics of metros that determined which of these regions shifted one way or the other? To get at this, we looked at the correlations between the share of votes for Biden and Trump and key metro characteristics such as size and density; socio-economic class; race and ethnicity; and other key indicators. As noted above, while Trump took more metros, Biden took larger metros. So it’s no surprise that the size of metros was positively correlated with Biden votes and negatively correlated with Trump votes. But Biden votes were even more closely correlated with population density, which is in line with my  previous analysis with Marie Patino that shows density is a key determinant in outcomes across counties. Read more: How Suburbs Swung the 2020 Election Car use, too, is a key dimension of America’s political divide. Trump support was positively associated with the share of people who drive to work alone. The charts below show these correlations, which are quantified as numbers between -1 (a perfect negative correlation) and 1 (a perfect positive correlation). Correlations like these simply point to associations between variables, and do not in any way imply causation. Anything over 0.50 suggests a strong relationship. A 0.60 correlation between density and Biden, for example, shows that denser places are far more likely to vote for Biden. A negative correlation of -0.52 means that people who drive alone are less likely to vote for Biden. The size of a metro area is correlated with a win for Biden, but its density is an even stronger predictor Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, Tony McGovern, analysis by Patrick Adler Note: Numbers represent correlation coefficients Class is an even more important factor in our analysis. Key markers of class, like income, education and occupation, help to explain a great deal of the 2020 metro vote. Across metros, the Biden vote was closely correlated with higher wages, higher levels of education and higher concentrations of business, professional and creative workers, while Trump support was concentrated in metros with greater concentrations of blue-collar, working-class jobs. Wages and income have a strong relationship to how metro areas voted Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, Tony McGovern, analysis by Patrick Adler Note: Numbers represent correlation coefficients Race and ethnicity were also factors in the 2020 metro vote, but less significant than the variables for social class. Trump’s support remained concentrated in metros with higher shares of White voters, while Biden support was correlated with the greater shares of Hispanic-Latino, Asians, and foreign-born residents. While Black voters remain a core component of the Democratic coalition and vote in overwhelming margins for Democratic candidates, at the metro level, the Black share of the population was not statistically significant with the vote for either Biden (where it was barely positive) or Trump (where it was even more modestly negative). This reflects the simple fact that many metros where Blacks make up a large share of the population are Southern metros that fall into the Trump camp. In metropolitan areas, the share of foreign-born and Asian residents had the strongest relationship to voting outcome Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, Tony McGovern , analysis by Patrick Adler Note: Numbers represent correlation coefficients Our analysis of the 2020 metro election reveals a nation deeply divided by geography, with denser, richer, more educated, more knowledge-based metros lining up for the Democrats and less advantaged, less educated, more working-class metros remaining Republican bastions. The metro election is not the complete story of course. Within metros, this election and the last several turned on the suburbs. But regardless of whether you look across or within metros, America’s electoral geography is increasingly defined by deepening fissures of density and class. — With assistance by Marie Patino