Investors are betting on the incumbent, President Nana Akufo-Addo, to sort out Ghana’s fiscal challenges if he wins a second term in Monday’s election. The New Patriotic Party’s Akufo-Addo will face off against his main opponent and predecessor, John Mahama, of the National Democratic Congress. The two parties have dominated Ghanaian politics since 1992. The havoc wreaked by the coronavirus pandemic drove Ghana’s ratio of debt to gross domestic product to 71% in September, the highest in four years. Before the global health crisis, the West African nation was already under fiscal pressure due to the costs of cleaning up the banking sector and meeting energy-sector liabilities. Ghana's government debt may soon be almost double what it was in 2013 Source: International Monetary Fund Note: 2019 and 2020 are estimates The government was forced to abandon a fiscal rule it introduced in 2018 to cap the budget deficit at 5% of GDP in any year, with the shortfall forecast to reach 11.4% for 2020. While both parties say they’re in favor of sustainable budget deficits over the next four-year term, they differ on how quickly they’ll get there. Akufo-Addo’s NPP plans to cut the deficit to 8.3% of GDP in 2021, and below 5% of GDP by the third year of the presidential term. Mahama’s NDC has said a “more realistic” deficit would be about 12% for 2021 from its expected 15% shortfall by the end of this year, even with serious structural reforms. Ghana's budget gap could be more than double the legal limit this year Source: Ministry of Finance  Read more: Ghana’s Mahama Touts $10 Billion Plan in Race for Presidency Here’s a round-up of investor views: Simon Quijano-Evans, chief economist at London-based Gemcorp Capital LLP: Kevin Daly, portfolio manager at London-based Aberdeen Standard Investments: Ghana's two main political parties have both overseen strong GDP growth Source: International Monetary Fund  Mark Bohlund, senior credit analyst at REDD Intelligence: Nana Adu Ampofo and Kobi Annan, analysts at U.K. and Ghana-based Songhai Advisory: Dylan Smith and Andrew Matheny, Goldman Sachs economists: