When the coronavirus hit the West, the hospital workers of Northern Italy waged the beachhead battles. Among the hardest hit hospitals was Papa Giovanni. On Feb. 21, the day it recorded its first Covid-19 case, it had 48 beds for infectious disease patients and an intensive-care unit with only eight. Within weeks, Papa Giovanni was housing about 550 Covid patients, including 100 in an expanded ICU. As sickened Italians overwhelmed the emergency room, the virus spread among staff. About 400 out of 4,500 workers at the hospital and nearby satellite facilities fell ill. Italy’s national doctors’ guild has tallied more than 200 dead; countless nurses, cleaners, and food-service workers have also lost their lives. Globally, during the first wave, about 14% of Covid-19 cases were among medical workers, according to the World Health Organization. At Papa Giovanni, the numbers of Covid patients had ticked up from near zero in the summer to the mid-double-digits in late October, when Bloomberg Businessweek interviewed staff. Here are edited excerpts, translated from Italian, of the stories they told about those desperate first days. MARCO RIZZI: It was tiring. It was sad, because many people were dead. But we had our mechanisms. One was to take a walk through the emergency room. When you saw the explosive situation in the emergency room, the motivation came. MARIA BEATRICE STASI: It was terrible days, with really strong emotions—firstly, because I lived part of the experience at home having contracted Covid. No management school can teach how to confront what we went through. You find energy you didn’t know you had. ALBERICO CASATI: We feared that the equipment wouldn’t meet the needs of the patients and medical staff. We had to manage the situation continually, minute to minute, and because there were moments when we exceeded the limits of the system, we had to be careful that it could all still work. I tried not to reflect on what was happening in my city, the continual wailing of ambulances. STEFANO FAGIUOLI: In the middle of my duties organizing the response, I also became sick. For a week, I was worried, because I didn’t know how it would go. When I understood I was fortunate, that it would all go well, I got increasingly angry about not being able to return quickly to the hospital to help my colleagues, who were swamped. LUCA LORINI: We constructed this marvelous “cathedral”: 100 ICU beds of patients, all intubated at the same time, and 500 patients in the rest of the hospital. I’m sure we’ll have a vaccine and return to a world that’s pretty normal—until the next pandemic. TATIANA FERRARI: There was enormous difficulty getting protective equipment, and this hospital needed a lot. For me and my team, it was a big test to procure it to deal with the daily need. Nationally, given the numbers, we weren’t prepared to manage a pandemic. 