The fencing around a new Seattle housing project aimed at Native Americans is decorated with images from the 1865 city ordinance that expelled Indigenous people from the city. Photo Courtesy Chief Seattle Club Photo Courtesy Chief Seattle Club The building is named ʔálʔal, which means “home” in Lushootseed, a Native American language of the Coast Salish people in the Seattle area. (It’s pronounced “all-all.”) Set to open in October 2021, the eight-story housing project will be built with the housing needs of one distinct community in mind — Native Americans, who in the Seattle area are seven times more likely than whites to be living in homelessness, according to a 2017 Seattle Human Services report. Most of the building’s 80 studio apartments will be for the homeless, with 10 reserved for veterans and another 10 for extremely low-income households. Each of the building’s floors will be named after traditional medicines, such as Sage and Yarrow Root, and covered in Coast Salish art. The ground floor will feature a traditional Native café, resourced by a local farm. There will also be a primary care health clinic run by the Seattle Indian Health Board. Outside, a 25-foot wooden statue of a Native mother with her hands raised will welcome residents and visitors. The figure is designed to send this message: “You have been out there struggling for so long, but in this place, you are going to find welcome, you are going to find security, you are going to find people who love you and appreciate you as a native person,” says Colleen Echohawk, executive director of Chief Seattle Club. Founded in 1970, the Seattle-based nonprofit works to support the city’s American Indian and Alaska Native residents by providing everything from food and housing assistance to legal help. Echohawk, a member of the Kithehaki Band of the Pawnee Nation and the founder of the Coalition to End Urban Indigenous Homelessness, began spearheading the $40 million ʔálʔal project at the beginning of 2017, after receiving word that the space next to Chief Seattle Club’s day center in the city’s historic Pioneer Square district would be opening up. Echohawk proposed buying it for a housing project and was given the go-ahead from Seattle’s Office of Housing to move forward; the agency, along with King County and Washington State, all contributed funding to the project. The Native community in King County, which includes Seattle, makes up just 1% of the population. But they account for 15% of the homeless population, according to the 2020 Seattle/King County Point-in-Time Count of Individuals Experiencing Homelessness. That’s a 5% increase from 2019, when they accounted for less than 1% of the county’s population. Homelessness across King County has been at crisis levels for years, a reflection of Seattle’s skyrocketing housing costs and lack of affordable housing. In 2015, then-Mayor Ed Murray declared a state of emergency over homelessness. The city’s disparity when it comes to Native homelessness is mirrored in several other cities across the U.S.: In 2015, a survey by Wilder Research found that Native people made up only 1% of Minnesota’s population, but accounted for 8% of its homeless adults. In Maricopa County, Arizona, which includes Phoenix, American Indian or Alaskan Native made up 3% of the population, but accounted for 7% of the homeless population, according to the 2020 Point-in-Time Count Report. But supportive housing and shelter facilities aimed at this population is a rarity in the U.S. The Native American Youth and Family Center, a nonprofit organization, worked with several other groups and the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians to recently launch a 59-unit affordable housing complex in Portland, Oregon, for Indigenous people, which is decorated with Native art. In the Phoenix metro area, the nonprofit Native American Connections operates several hundred units of affordable housing. When ʔálʔal opens, it will join this very small handful of other similar purpose-built projects aimed at addressing Native homelessness. Not only is it the first of its kind in Seattle, but its suite of amenities and services for residents — which include access to vocational rehabilitation, housing case management and traditional and cultural practices at the Chief Seattle Club next door — represent a holistic approach to helping Indigenous people that’s uniquely ambitious in the  U.S. Juan Del Prado, 54, is one of the many people already hoping to move in. He’d been living in his van for 15 years and was until recently working at a nearby casino. But his van broke down last October, and in March the buses and shuttles he took to work stopped running  because of the pandemic, leaving him unemployed and homeless. A member of the Tlingit Tribe in Alaska, Del Prado has been staying since April at Eagle Village, another Chief Seattle Club housing project that operates out of a series of trailers. Getting into one of the ʔálʔal studios is very important, he says, because he can be around his community. “I am comfortable being around Native people — it makes me feel at home and puts me at ease,” Del Prado says. “I just find it very essential to be around and not just share what I know, but it will help me learn more about other Natives.” Despite the high concentration of Native people in the Seattle area who are homeless, there’s a critical shortage of culturally competent outreach that fits the community’s distinctive history and needs. Nationwide, Native Americans have the second-highest rate of homelessness when compared with other racial/ethnic groups (just behind Pacific Islanders), according to the National Alliance to End Homelessness’s 2020 State of Homelessness report. But detailed data on Native homelessness is fairly limited. Janeen Comenote, founding executive director of the National Urban Indian Family Coalition, says that this type of invisibility, at both the data gathering and policy levels, contribute to the problem, along with generational poverty. “That invisibility lends itself almost instantly to marginalization in the economy, to marginalization in public policy,” says Comenote, an enrolled member of the Quinault Indian Nation. “When we’re not reflected in public policy, those public policies don’t address our needs.” The roots of the issue run deep, and are connected to historical and ongoing trauma, says Echohawk. From the vast campaign of racial extermination of Indigenous peoples that followed the arrival of European settlers to the forced cultural erasure inflicted by Indian boarding schools to today’s high rates of violence against Native women, girls and “Two Spirit people,” it’s all but impossible to overstate the over-500-year plight of the Native community. “We’re not just a stereotype. We’re builders. We’re developers.” In her work with the Chief Seattle Club — whose featured adage is “native people were never homeless before 1492” — Echohawk still sees older Native community members who have been severely impacted by the boarding school system. Some are Alaska Natives who went to boarding schools as children and were never able to reconnect with their families. Today, they continue to experience a “deep longing,” she says, for connections to their culture and traditions. Michael Goze, chief executive officer of the American Indian Community Development Corporation, which develops housing for the Native community in Minnesota, said some people his organization helps have suffered from being taken out of their homes and placed in foster care as a result of the Indian Adoption Project in the mid-20th century. The corporation runs about a dozen housing projects, and Goze said he makes a point of trying to incorporate Native art throughout the spaces, giving residents the opportunity to create dreamcatchers, drums and ribbon skirts. About 90% of the housing staff are also Native people, which he’s found resonates with residents. “They walk into a building and they see people that look like them and may have had similar experiences that help them to understand that this person has the ability to help me,” said Goze, a member of the Ho-Chunk Nation of Wisconsin. Goze highlighted a survey he conducted in 2017 involving 200 homeless people in Minnesota, the vast majority of which were Native. Most had spent the night in a non-native shelter and over 80% said they’d never go back. “They felt no safety,” Goze says. “They felt no ownership or no connection.” Comenote, whose national coalition represents 38 urban Indian centers in 26 cities across the U.S., said it can make all the difference when housing projects are run by Indigenous people who better understand both the residents’ life and cultural experiences as well as the discrimination they’ve faced. “We know that when our community gets culturally competent services, by Native people for Native people, the services are going to stick,” she says. Out of the 5.2 million people in the U.S. who identified as American Indian or Alaska Native in the most recently released census, about 78% do not live on reservations. For those who do, traditional homelessness tends to not be as big of a problem as under-housing and overcrowding. Although data is extremely limited on this subject, according to the National Congress of American Indians, about one-third of homes on reservations are considered overcrowded, and 40% are substandard. Fewer than 50% of these homes have a connection to public sewer systems, and in some areas there’s no phone service. An Urban Institute report from 2017 found that about 16% of tribal area households were overcrowded, and 6% were severely overcrowded. Poor housing conditions have contributed to the disproportionate Covid-19 infection and death rate among tribal communities, an August study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention concluded. Many native people move off reservations to seek economic opportunities, but they can find themselves ill prepared for urban life, Comenote says. “There’s kind of like a nasty surprise when you get to cities, because you realize in order to get an apartment in a city like Seattle or San Francisco or Oakland or Minneapolis or New York you have to have a credit history, for one,” she says. “You have to be able to put down up to $4,000 just to move in. There’s sort of a culture shock that happens for families who migrate from reservations.” In Seattle — a city named after the chief of the Duwamish and Suquamish tribes who first welcomed white settlers to the area — Natives looking for homes in one of the nation’s most overheated housing markets must also contend with a history of legal  discrimination that dates back into the 19th century. In 1865, the newly established city approved an ordinance expelling Native people and preventing them from making homes in Seattle. That legacy will make it all the more powerful to establish ʔálʔal in Pioneer Square, site of the city’s earliest white settlements. Soon, the city’s historic heart will boast a housing project made by and for the Indigenous community. With what is expected to be a 20,000-pound statue at its entrance, it will be hard to miss. “It will hopefully remind people that we’re in a Coast Salish neighborhood, and that we have a responsibility to be good neighbors to our Coast Salish communities,” says Echohawk. “It will  also tell people, ‘Wow, this is what the Native community is about.’ We’re not just the folks experiencing homelessness. We’re not just a stereotype. We’re builders. We’re developers. We’re homeless advocates and providers.”