German Chancellor Angela Merkel extended the nation’s partial lockdown for three more weeks as the country struggles to contain the spread of coronavirus, with the daily death toll at its highest since April. The U.S. had its deadliest day ever, with Covid-19 fatalities topping 2,700, according to Johns Hopkins University. Hospitalizations in the country surpassed 100,000 for the first time. Los Angeles ordered residents to stay home and businesses that require in-person work to cease operations. Japan’s Osaka Prefecture will issue a red alert for the first time as soon as Thursday, signaling that the region is in a state of emergency, due to the rising number of serious patients, broadcaster TBS reported without attribution. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID Thailand will intensify patrolling at its borders after about a dozen people, who illegally entered the country from neighboring Myanmar, tested positive for coronavirus. “We’re not only cracking down on border areas but we’re doing increased searches throughout the nation,” Opas Karnkawipong, acting director general of disease control at the health ministry, said at a briefing Thursday. “Our immigration and communicable diseases laws all carry severe punishments and the authorities will punish all who break our laws to the highest degree.” Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany will extend its partial lockdown by three weeks as the country struggles to regain control of the coronavirus spread. Bars, gyms and cinemas will remain closed until Jan. 10 and the government will reconvene with regional leaders on Jan. 4 to reassess the restrictions, Merkel said late Wednesday after talks with the premiers of Germany’s 16 states. The country’s infection rates are still far too high and need to come down faster, Merkel said in Berlin. “We have to bemoan a very high number of deaths every day, which shows the amount of responsibility that we have.” Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca outlined a road map for vaccination as the country struggles with an increasing number of coronavirus cases and deaths. The first batch of vaccines is expected to arrive after Dec. 11 and people including medical staff and those over 65 years old with chronic diseases will be vaccinated in the first phase, according to minister’s remarks in state Anadolu news agency. Although Koca didn’t mention a specific vaccine name, Turkey has previously said it agreed with China to purchase 50 million doses over the next three months. The country is also in discussions for 1 million doses of the vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti issued an order for residents to stay at home, warning that the city is approaching a “devastating tipping point” in its fight against Covid-19 that would overwhelm the hospital system. “We must minimize contact with others as much as possible,” Garcetti wrote in the order dated Dec. 2. The steps were needed to avoid risking “needless suffering and death,” he said. The order, which supersedes one from June, prohibits public and private gatherings of people from more than one household and states that all businesses in the city that require people to work on location must stop operations. Walking, driving, travel on public transport, bikes, motorcycles and scooters are prohibited, other than for those undertaking essential activities. JUST IN: Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti orders residents to stay home as #coronavirus cases rise. More: https://t.co/cenGZCbvqn pic.twitter.com/EdvtQwlYbP Based on Osaka’s three-tier alert system a red alert indicates the medical system is under incredible strain. It calls for people not to travel and facilities that could be the source of cluster outbreaks to close. Tokyo found 533 new virus cases, 54 of which are serious. Japan authorities have been urging preparations for a “worst-case scenario” as serious Covid-19 cases have risen to a record across the country. Tokyo raised its Covid-19 alert to the highest of four levels last month, as daily infections in the Japanese capital increased by more than 500. The U.S. recorded its deadliest day ever, with Covid-19 fatalities reaching more than 2,700 to surpass the previous peak in April, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. The total death toll in the country is at more than 273,000, the most of any nation, as hospitals in some regions are approaching capacity. The Rust Belt, New York and California are likely to drive up the pace of Covid-19 deaths in coming weeks as the U.S. approaches 300,000 fatalities, based on a forecast from the University of Massachusetts Amherst’s Reich Lab. The death toll is rising as hospitalizations in the U.S. surpassed 100,000 for the first time, according to the Covid Tracking Project. Hospitalizations increased by more than 1,000 a day at the end of November, data released from the Department of Health and Human Services show. California recorded a 38% surge from Nov. 23 to Dec. 1, with 8,171 coronavirus patients as of Tuesday. Arizona’s Covid-19 inpatients jumped 28% to 2,479. Australia’s New South Wales state has recorded its first new case of the coronavirus in 25 days after a woman working at a quarantine hotel in Sydney tested positive. Authorities are investigating whether she became infected in the community or through work at the facility, the state health department said in a statement Thursday. The woman’s five family members were tested overnight and all returned a negative result for the virus. Myanmar has imposed a strict stay-at-home order for two weeks in Mandalay district, home to the nation’s second-largest city, to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases after the Nov. 8 general election, according to a statement by Mandalay Region Government. Nearly 2 million people from seven townships must stay at home Dec. 5-18, except for work and health reasons, according to the order. The U.S. government paid Eli Lilly & Co. $812.5 million to secure an additional 650,000 vials of Covid-19 antibody treatment to be administered in December and January to non-hospitalized patients at the early stages of disease. Operation Warp Speed, the multi-agency effort to accelerate access to treatments, had previously paid Lilly $375 million for an initial 300,000 doses of its monoclonal antibody, bamlanivimab. As a part of that deal, Lilly agreed to supply the U.S. with an additional 650,000 doses with an important caveat: The country would have to demonstrate an ongoing need for the treatment, which is difficult to manufacture and limited in quantity. Now, as the U.S. continues to see a surge in cases, that option has been exercised. — With assistance by Stuart Wallace, and Aaron Clark