A nurse gives a free flu shot to a patient at Comerica Park in downtown Detroit in November. In many cities, seasonal flu clinics offered a trial run for Covid vaccine distribution. Photographer: Seth Herald/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Seth Herald/AFP via Getty Images In November, Washington, D.C.’s health department conducted a survey of 3,000 district residents to understand how many would be willing to receive the forthcoming Covid-19 vaccine. The results suggested that local public health authorities had a lot of convincing to do: Overall, 44% of respondents who identified as Black and African American said they would not accept a vaccine, along with 11% of those identified as Hispanic or Latino. The results for healthcare workers also indicated a trust gap, despite their greater vulnerability to the virus: 46% of healthcare workers who identify as black or African American and 10% of those who are Hispanic or Latino would not get the vaccine, they said. Potential side effects, safety and the speed at which the vaccine was made were their biggest concerns. “If there is hesitancy among the groups that have been disproportionately affected by the pandemic, I worry that we’re going to see two separate responses,” says Ankoor Shah, interim principal senior deputy director for D.C.’s Community Health Administration. The worst case scenario, he says, is that “those who are disproportionately impacted by the pandemic will continue to be, because of vaccine hesitancy.” Fears about vaccine safety have ebbed somewhat since this survey was administered. The U.K. began mass immunization this week, bringing the process out of the domain of the hypothetical, and the Food and Drug Administration is poised to approve Pfizer Inc.’s vaccine for use in the U.S. within days. Shipments of the first round of doses to states and cities nationwide will begin as soon as next week. Another vaccine, this one developed by drugmaker Moderna Inc., is expected to get the nod from U.S. regulators before the end of the year. But mistrust and privacy concerns remain, and could go deeper among communities of color, who are scarred by incidents like the unethical Tuskegee Syphilis Study and by racial biases that have been shown to negatively impact the care Black patients receive. Myriad logistical challenges still remain to be conquered, too: Pfizer’s vaccine must be stored in ultra-cold freezers, and both Pfizer and Moderna’s regimens require follow-up booster shots. Many communities will be hard to reach — those who live in rural areas, or in urban neighborhoods underserved by healthcare infrastructure. Undocumented people, those who are unhoused or those who lack health insurance could likewise fall through the cracks in the national vaccine roll-out. The job of overcoming these and other hurdles will fall in part to local officials and city leaders. “The main role that cities and city governments and local health departments tend to play is in the public campaign to increase trust in the vaccine,” says Eric Schneider, senior vice president for policy and research at the Commonwealth Fund, a philanthropy that does healthcare research. Building acceptance for the vaccine, allocating it equitably across various populations, and then administrating it efficiently will be a task shared across multiple players. Cities are one piece in this vaccination puzzle, and will need to coordinate with public health departments that are often run at the county level. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released guidance on who should be first in line to get the vaccine, but local governments are able to interpret them at their own discretion; individual states have prepared distribution plans. In the U.S., the order will generally go: first to healthcare workers, first responders and residents of long-term care facilities. Then to essential workers, people over 65, and individuals with comorbidities that make them more susceptible to a severe case of the virus. Lower-risk groups will not be immunized until later in the spring or summer. But as has been in the case in many stages of the pandemic, the U.S. is a patchwork of preparedness. In a November investigation, ProPublica found that the majority of the states they surveyed did not have adequate plans to store or distribute the vaccines. Disparities in geography and between various communities could further hamper vaccination uptake, allowing the virus to continue spreading unchecked, with deadly consequences. The current surge in infections in the U.S. — the worst since the pandemic arrived — is already straining hospitals in many parts of the country. “People have to trust the vaccine, and people have to have access to it,” says former Baltimore City health commissioner Joshua Sharfstein, vice-dean for public health practice and community engagement at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. “Cities have a role to play in both.” The worries articulated by D.C. residents are shared by a broad cross-section of Americans. Of nearly 13,000 nurses surveyed in October by the American Nurses Foundation, 37% of them said they were not confident that a vaccine would be safe and effective, and only 34% said they’d willingly vaccinate themselves if their employer didn’t require it. More than half of firefighters for New York City, which has the largest department in the country and 200 members currently out sick with Covid, said they wouldn’t get the vaccine. In a November Pew survey of U.S. residents, 60% of people said they would definitely or “probably” get the Covid-19 vaccine “if one were available today.” That’s up from September’s confidence levels, but it still leaves 39% of the respondents more hesitant. Black people — who are more than three times more likely than White people to die from the disease, in part because of being overrepresented in essential jobs — show more reticence than other groups in the Pew survey, with 42% of Black respondents willing to be vaccinated compared to over 60% of Hispanic and White adults, and over 80% of Asian-Americans. To increase community confidence, cities are rolling out public information campaigns and engaging with community health workers and other trusted local leaders. Bloomberg Philanthropies announced a partnership with the U.S. Conference of Mayors to coordinate local vaccine distribution efforts, drawing on the expertise of four historically Black medical schools. (Disclosure: Bloomberg LP is the parent of Bloomberg CityLab.) “This vaccination effort must begin with establishing trust, especially among people who have historically been hesitant of the healthcare and scientific communities,” said Dr. James Hildreth, President of Meharry Medical College, the country’s largest historically Black medical school, in a statement. “Trust begins with ensuring our community members hear this essential message from the right people, those health experts who look like them.” Cities with large African-American populations are taking various strategies to build trust in immunization. In Baltimore, the Baltimore Health Corps — made up primarily of people who were laid off early in the coronavirus pandemic — is prepared to expand its efforts to include vaccine education. D.C. is running focus groups to understand what messaging works, and engaging with trusted community members in faith institutions and in groups like the Black Coalition Against Covid. The goal is not to be paternalistic, or force vaccine adoption, Shah says. “It’s our job to do more to ensure that everyone has as many tools as they need to make that decision.” Philip Huang, the director of Dallas County Health and Human Services, says that city leaders can help assure the public by “walking the walk” and “rolling up their sleeves” to get a vaccine themselves. Another issue of potential concern is the intersection of Covid vaccine hesitancy with the broader public resistance to childhood vaccinations, especially in cities known as anti-vaccination hotspots, such as Portland, Seattle and Salt Lake City. Audrey Stevenson, the director of family health for Salt Lake County’s health department, and the leader of its Covid vaccination branch, has observed hesitation among county residents, including healthcare providers, fanned by the anti-vaccine movement. “Any messaging that we have is just primarily trying to prepare people that this is coming, and it’s a great thing that it’s going to be coming,” she says. Community health workers that have been central to the county’s contact tracing work will also be on the vaccination frontlines. Seasonal influenza vaccination rates provide clues on where vaccine acceptance and access could be most limited: In a recent Commonwealth Fund analysis Schneider co-authored, researchers highlighted the fact that no state had reached a flu vaccination rate of more than 51% in 2019, far lower than the 70% threshold that the federal government has set as a goal. Particularly uncovered populations were concentrated in Covid hotspots in the South and Rocky Mountain states like Idaho and Wyoming. Flu vaccination uptake is not a perfect predictor of how communities will respond to the Covid vaccine, says Schneider, and uptake is predicted to be far higher this year — but generally, rural vaccination rates tend to be lower than urban rates. That’s in part a reflection of the uneven access to healthcare infrastructure, but he says it also may reflect “that important role that cities play.” The metric used by the federal government to calculate each state’s allocation is population, and each locality is then given doses accordingly. But that could introduce dangerous mismatches between need and supply, even in the earliest phases. Washington, D.C., for example, belongs to no state or county, and its official population of about 700,000 doesn’t reflect the many thousands of area residents who work in the district but live in Maryland or Virginia, many of whom would be prioritized first for a vaccine. An estimated three-quarters of the 85,100 healthcare workers who work in D.C., for example, live in Maryland or Virginia, says Shah. “If our allocation is based on our resident population, it’s going to be an inequitable allocation of resources,” Shah says. Still, “there’s no way we’re going to tell hospitals you can only vaccinate people who live in D.C., or tell them to go home.” The city’s testing program tests people regardless of residency status; its vaccination process will, too. Despite requests from officials in D.C., the federal government does not appear to be open to changing the allocation based on worker population. “Residents from outside the District of Columbia who come into the district for work will be reflected in the allocations of the states in which they reside,” a spokesperson for the federal health department told Washington City Paper. Other cities may run into similar problems. Unlike cities whose pandemic response is run at the county level, the city of Philadelphia is a separate awardee from the CDC, receiving its own federal funding and running its own immunization program. It, too, has a high volume of frontline workers who commute. “Anywhere between 40% to 60% of our healthcare personnel live outside the city,” says Amber Tirmal, Philadelphia’s immunization program manager. The city is following the same federal guidelines on who should be vaccinated when, but it has an especially broad view of what healthcare personnel are eligible, she says, accounting for “both paid and unpaid people serving in healthcare settings who have the potential for direct or indirect exposure to infectious materials and are unable to work from home.” The city won’t take home city into account when prioritizing these workers, either: “Our goal and our responsibility is to vaccinate individuals who live or work in Philadelphia,” Tirmal says. If vaccine supplies are insufficient, they’ll work with the CDC and Operation Warp Speed, the federal-level public-private partnership run out of the CDC and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to develop and distribute a vaccine, and “hope that we can get additional allocations as we move forward.” The last-mile problem of the nationwide vaccine delivery process involves getting people to the shots themselves. Local health departments — at the county or city level — must identify communities who are especially vulnerable to the virus and uniquely challenged in accessing healthcare infrastructure. Those who are insured will be able to go to their healthcare providers for a vaccinations; others will depend on their employers or will go to participating pharmacies. National chains like CVS and Walgreens are readying to receive thousands of doses to administer in long-term care facilities, and will later play a role in mass public drives. “The first phases can run through existing distribution channels pretty effectively,” says Schneider. “The biggest worry would be that communities that lack hospitals, providers, or pharmacies would be at the end of the line, when this might represent very high-risk communities.” To avoid a situation where wealthier zip codes would inevitably be better vaccinated, “cities and states will step in.” “We want to make it as easy for people as possible, so they almost have to go out of their way to avoid it, rather than going out of their way to get it.” By one estimation, about 100 million Americans live in “pharmacy deserts,” with limited access to drug stores. Many of these areas are concentrated in low-income urban communities. In Chicago, for example, 37% of the population, or about 1 million residents, live more than a mile from the nearest pharmacy. It’s also a problem in rural areas with large populations of elderly people: One 2018 study found that 37% of Pennsylvania census tracts were pharmacy deserts. To reach unhoused people, undocumented residents, the uninsured and those with limited access to transportation and healthcare clinics, cities will have to employ new infrastructure, or try innovative outreach strategies. Some cities are building off their existing Covid testing facilities: When Salt Lake County purchased equipment like tents to set up drive-through testing, Stevenson says they ordered in anticipation of later using some of the same supplies for local vaccine clinics. “We don’t want to duplicate” the efforts of other community health providers, she says, “but we want to make sure we don’t have any gaps.” Salt Lake County has used a ramped up flu vaccination campaign as a practice run, says Stevenson. The county received 250,000 doses of flu vaccine, which they offered for free, targeting people who came in for Covid-19 testing. So far, they’ve been able to vaccinate 15,000 individuals. “There seems to be a higher demand than usual within the community,” she says. The push has played a twofold role, Stevenson says: to protect the community against two viruses circulating at the same time, and to sharpen the health department’s vaccination skills. It also helped her team identify groups that lack access to healthcare providers, insurance, documentation, or whose work hours preclude them from convenient vaccination appointments. “The starting point is to offer them the flu vaccine. Ultimately, once we’ve developed that relationship, then we would be able to follow up by providing the Covid vaccine,” Stevenson says. Shreveport, Louisiana, has been running a drive-through flu vaccine clinic this winter, telling Bloomberg News that it has a similar goal of serving as “practice” for their eventual distribution of hundreds of thousands of Covid vaccination doses. Philadelphia is working with local groups like the Covid Consortium and Philadelphia Fighting Covid to plan for community vaccination clinics in future phases. While many other localities will have to depend on high-tech hospital freezers to store the vaccine, the city of Philadelphia has procured two extra-cold storage facilities in the last month. “We really want to make it as easy for people as possible, so they almost have to go out of their way to avoid it, rather than going out of their way to get it,” says Tirmal. For the incoming administration of President-elect Joe Biden, overseeing vaccine distribution will be a critical early test: Promising “the most efficient mass vaccination plan in U.S. history,” Biden committed to delivering 100 million shots within the first 100 days of his administration. Calling that 100-million-shot goal “very optimistic,” former Baltimore health commissioner Dr. Leana Wen told the New York Times that, to achieve it, “distribution has to be seamless all across the U.S., and that means every state and local health department coordinating.” Biden has also emphasized school reopenings and mask-wearing in his plan to slow the pandemic’s deadly effects in his first months in office. The president-elect has already signaled that the pandemic’s unequal toll will be a focus of federal efforts after Jan. 20: His team of health experts includes Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith, a Yale expert in public health disparities who will head up a special COVID-19 Equity Task Force. In a tweet on Tuesday, Nunez-Smith said: “It is our societal obligation to ensure equitable access to testing, treatments, and vaccines. Equitable support for those who are hurting. And equitable pathways to opportunity as we emerge from this crisis and rebuild — including for the most marginalized communities.” With the first shipments of the Pfizer vaccine ready to be sent off within the next week, cities will soon have the opportunity to meet that obligation. Chicago has set a goal of offering all its adult residents the vaccine in 2021, free of charge; New York City, the epicenter of the outbreak’s first wave in the U.S., preparing to receive nearly half a million doses. In places battered by the economic damage and sheer loss of the life that the coronavirus has brought, the prospect of mass immunization represents the beginning of the pandemic’s final act. But a long and uncertain road still awaits. “We may know what the initial allocation is,” says Philadelphia’s Tirmal. “But we don’t necessarily know what future allocations are going to look like.”