Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. McKinsey & Co., one of the world’s biggest management consultancy firms, this week humbled itself before a South African judicial inquiry into government-related graft. The firm pledged to return 650 million rand ($43 million) in fees to Transnet, the state logistics company, and South African Airways. That money came from joint contracts with a firm linked to the Gupta brothers, who have been accused of influencing South African government appointments for their own gain and have refused to return from Dubai to face corruption charges. McKinsey’s chief risk officer, Jean-Christophe Mieszala, testified before the commission, admitting mistakes and to “terminating” employees for their role. He didn't admit corruption on behalf of McKinsey. It may not be enough. Transnet claims it's owed more than 1.2 billion rand and Iraj Abedian, one of the country’s most-prominent economists, questioned how the company could set its own terms of atonement. McKinsey has paid before. In 2018, it returned 1 billion rand to the state power utility, Eskom, for participating in similarly tainted compacts. It no longer accepts lucrative contracts to help South African state companies and has declined to say what is left of the rest of its business in Africa’s most-industrialized nation. “From South Africa we learned some lessons,” Mieszala said at the inquiry. “We should have known whom we were dealing with.” It's easy to forget that McKinsey isn't alone. KPMG, SAP and Bain & Co. have been ensnared in South African graft probes, while contracts Eskom concluded with some of the world’s biggest engineering firms are being investigated. Ghana Votes | Nana Akufo-Addo vowed to restore economic growth in Africa's biggest gold producer after securing a second four-year term as president. Another close contest between the incumbent and his predecessor, John Mahama, saw Akufo-Addo win 51.6% of the vote. The opposition has threatened to challenge the result, a rare move in what is viewed as one of Africa's most stable democracies. Farm Attacks | A surge in attacks on Nigerian farmers is having a knock-on effect on the West African nation’s grain reserves. Stocks have declined to less than 30,000 metric tons — a fraction of what the country of 200 million people requires — and growing insecurity is making it difficult to augment those supplies. Last month, suspected Islamist insurgents killed dozens of subsistence rice growers in the northeastern state of Borno, where an insurgency has raged for more than a decade. Humanitarian Crisis | An attack on a team of United Nations security officials in northern Ethiopia has stalled plans to send emergency assistance to the nation’s conflict-torn Tigray region. Aid groups are unable to deploy in the region almost two weeks after the government said it would allow relief supplies to be sent there. It's unclear whose soldiers fired on the group, with UN teams having observed troops wearing Eritrean uniforms moving in the area. Nigeria Gold | Savvy investors have found a new, less-obvious benefit from exchange-traded funds in Nigeria. Foreigners are using a tiny gold ETF to pull cash out of the West African nation amid the country’s ongoing dollar shortage. Portfolio managers are buying the Newgold Issuer ETF in Lagos, the commercial capital, using naira. Then they transfer holdings to the fund’s primary listing in South Africa and sell for rand, despite it being an almost-certain money-loser. Virus Wave | South Africa’s government declared a "second wave" of coronavirus infections as the number of cases surged in the nation's four biggest provinces. Confirmed cases jumped to more than 8,000 a day, the most since early-August, raising the possibility authorities could reintroduce economically damaging restrictions to contain the spread. Much of the outbreak was blamed on youths attending "super-spreader" parties to celebrate the end of the school year. Data Watch Coming Up Ivory Coast and Hershey have   resolved their differences over cocoa prices. The West African country lifted an order to suspend the global chocolate maker's sustainability programs following a "definitive" commitment to paying a premium slapped on cocoa to improve farmers’ income. The governments of Ivory Coast — the world's biggest cocoa producer — and neighboring Ghana had accused Hershey, the maker of Kisses, Reese’s and other chocolate treats, of trying to avoid the $400-a-ton premium by buying cocoa through the New York exchange. Hershey upended markets in November when it unexpectedly bought large amounts of cocoa through futures contracts, roiling prices. — With assistance by Rene Vollgraaff