U.S. Supreme Court justices suggested they might give companies a narrow victory in a clash over human-rights lawsuits, voicing skepticism about a lawsuit that accuses Nestle SA’s U.S. unit and  Cargill Inc. of complicity in the use of child slavery on Ivory Coast cocoa farms. Hearing arguments by phone, justices from across the court’s ideological spectrum questioned whether the allegations against the companies had enough of a U.S. connection to go forward. But even some of the court’s conservative members indicated reluctance to completely exempt U.S. companies from liability under a 1789 law used by activists to sue over overseas atrocities. The upshot could be another incremental victory for corporations on the 231-year-old Alien Tort Statute, which was a favorite tool of human-rights advocates until the Supreme Court started scaling it back. The court ruled in 2013 that the law generally  doesn’t apply beyond U.S. borders, and in 2018 that foreign corporations  can’t be sued. Justice Samuel Alito was among the conservatives who seemed unwilling to immunize domestic corporations as well. He said the companies’ arguments would prevent a U.S. business from being sued under the law for hiring agents to kidnap and enslave African children, telling Nestle’s lawyer that “many of your arguments lead to results that are pretty hard to take.” But Alito also criticized what he saw as a lack of specificity in the long-running lawsuit against Nestle and Cargill. “After 15 years, is it too much to ask that you allege specifically that the defendants who are before us here specifically knew that forced child labor was being used on the farms or farm cooperatives with which they did business?” Alito asked the lawyer pressing the suit. The case, filed by six former slaves who were kidnapped from their native Mali, has been moving up and down the federal court system since 2005. The companies are accused of aiding and abetting slave labor by giving Ivory Coast farmers financial assistance in the expectation that cocoa prices would stay low. The suit alleges the companies were fully aware that child slavery was being used. The ex-slaves say children were forced to work as much as 14 hours a day, given only scraps to eat, and were severely beaten or tortured if they tried to escape. The companies deny the allegations of wrongdoing and say they condemn child slavery.“Child labor in foreign countries is a complex, global social problem,” Nestle said in an emailed statement Tuesday. “Nestle has explicit policies against it and is unwavering in our dedication to ending it.” The 33-word Alien Tort Statute was in part a reaction to an attack on a French diplomat in Philadelphia. The law lay largely dormant for almost two centuries before being revived in the 1970s as a means of pressing human-rights lawsuits. Multinational companies have faced dozens of Alien Tort Statute suits accusing them of playing a role in human rights violations, environmental wrongdoing and labor abuses. The cases are Nestle USA v. Doe,  19-416, and Cargill v. Doe,  19-453.