Illustration: 731 Illustration: 731 Buy several credit cards with different due dates. Max out spending on the first one, use another to pay it off, and then repeat with a third and fourth and so on to live off debt forever. It’s an absurd and financially dangerous idea, of course, but it was the “perfect life hack” for Tommy Zippler. At least that’s how he put it in an Oct. 11 video to his 1.6 million followers on TikTok, where the post has been viewed more than 430,000 times. Is this possible? #credit #creditcard #foryou #kingzippy Zippler, who goes by @kingzippy on the viral-video sharing app, says he thought of the idea as he was getting ready to pay his credit-card bills. “I know it’s not possible, but I also knew that people would fall for it and think it would actually work,” said the 30-year-old from Blackwood, New Jersey. “It just shows how easy it is to spread fake information on TikTok. I think some users might actually try it. Hopefully they don’t.” While Zippler’s profile page notes that all his “videos are jokes,” TikTok users typically don’t see such details. Instead, the app’s mysterious algorithm feeds its 800 million — and growing — users an endless scroll of videos that’s customized based on their interests. It’s influencing pop culture and shaping the lives of its millennial and Gen Z audience. The variety of content is vast and often defies categorization — everything from synchronized dance videos to comedy to a “banana giving birth” (just watch it.) Just a banana giving birth... #fyp #foryourpage (via@calebcutler) This year, as the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked economic havoc around the world, young people have increasingly turned to TikTok as a source of financial literacy and tips for managing their money. Hashtags like #sidehustle, #personalfinance, #investing and #stocktips have drawn millions of views in just a few months, and videos about how to become a millionaire by 22, which credit card to get or how to open a brokerage account have become regular programing. Hootsuite estimates 69% of TikTok users are between ages 13 and 24. The app’s short videos on personal-finance topics are more engaging and fun than what a finance-industry professional might offer. But the scattershot nature of the content and the focus on virality over facts means it’s hard to separate reasonable lessons from ideas that are misinformed, malicious or just a joke, like Zippler’s credit card “hack.” The speed with which information can blow through TikTok and the huge size of the potential audience can encourage people to offer promises of easy money or stock tips in exchange for “likes” on their posts and more followers, according to Kelley Cotter, a postdoctoral scholar at the School of Social & Behavioral Sciences at Arizona State University. “People are sort of optimizing their videos for entertainment. They’re not necessarily being as diligent about fact checking information, nor is that really a major concern,” Cotter said. “The concern is more of like, ‘How do I get this video in front of people, so I can continue to sustain myself and achieve my goals?’” TikTok downloads have surged during the pandemic Source: Sensor Tower Note: App download growth in U.S., H2 2019 to H1 2020 The interest in personal-finance advice on TikTok has coincided with another popular pandemic pastime for millennials and Gen Z:  stock trading on platforms like Robinhood. In just a few months, some have gained millions of followers by offering tips on how to trade and what shares to buy. They often direct people to take further steps, such as purchase $300 courses on their personal websites or to join their channels on communications app Discord where they offer more advice. On Aug. 10, @14th.ryan urged people to follow him for investing advice after a 970% increase in the stock of a company he had recommended, Callon Petroleum Co. But the firm had in fact merely enacted a reverse split, adjusting the price of its shares from about $1 to $10 — a strategy that doesn’t alter market value. Then @14th.ryan posted another video in which he said he’s “no expert at all” and that “I am not liable” if anyone followed his advice. The original video is still up and has 1.1 million views, while the follow up has been viewed about 31,500 times. @14th.ryan didn’t respond to a request for comment. #greenscreen TikTok says its users have shown an interest in personal finance and investing, with #sidehustle and #makemoney among the top hashtags related to the topic. The company removes posts and accounts that violate its community guidelines, which it identifies through a combination of technology that automatically flags content to its moderation team for review as well as reports it receives, a spokesperson said. “We do not permit anyone to exploit our platform to harm others, which includes schemes to defraud individuals or steal assets,” the guidelines say. “We remove content that deliberately deceives people in order to gain an unlawful financial advantage.” The company didn’t provide details on how its algorithm works, or specific examples of content that was reviewed or removed. TikTok’s appeal is its simplicity. Dry or complicated financial topics like taxes, investing or retirement planning are broken down and explained in no more than 60 seconds, complete with background music, visual filters, colorful text, and even dancing. But this multimedia format means it’s much harder to police compared with the text-heavy content on Twitter and Facebook, according to Cotter at Arizona State University. The videos are having real-life impact, sometimes in a good way. Over the past year, 21-year-old Brandon To has made big changes to his financial life. He started contributing to a tax-free savings account, opened a retirement fund, invested in his first brokerage account and started a business, all within a matter of months. Stuck in lockdown during the pandemic, he discovered financial influencers on TikTok and became obsessed with the idea that he could become financially independent and retire early. “Before TikTok, I wasn’t very motivated in school, I just wanted to finish my degree and get a job,” said To, who lives in Vancouver. While scrolling through the app, he stumbled on a video that, through simple terms and the use of pictures and illustrations, explained how setting up a Limited Liability Company could help him pay less in taxes. HOW TO grow your business into a well protected empire with low taxes  #entrepreneur #biztok #sidehustle #bussinesstips #taxes #ecommerce The knowledge he gained encouraged him to take a tax course in college, and he started his own online pet shop shortly thereafter. The business failed. “It wasn’t successful, but TikTok did help foster my ambition to learn more about how to run a business,” To said. He also learned from TikTok that “every year money loses its value.” (Or as we call it, inflation.) So he put a majority of his money into the stock market in March and since then, he says, his net worth has increased. To has now started his own TikTok channel to share his steps to success. Steve Chen, 33, is a former public school teacher who runs a successful  TikTok account, @calltoleap, that offers financial advice to about 360,000 followers. He set out to make finance and trading simple but with a disclaimer: His followers should always do their own research and that options vary depending on different financial goals. Chen has gained less traction on Instagram and YouTube, and he attributes much of his success on TikTok to the platform’s algorithm. His most viral videos, with over 1 million views, are the ones that he said started an intense debate in the video’s comment section. When he explained in a video about how he achieved financial freedom by the age of 33, it spurred a lot of commentary. That engagement seems to have been picked up by TikTok’s algorithm, which featured the post in its “For You” page that lists “recommended videos” and can boost traffic. Zippler has his own theory for why his post on living off credit card debt proved popular. “It went viral because TikTok has a very young crowd, and everyone’s always looking for that fast money and easy way to live, let alone live for free,” he said. “Everyone loves a shortcut in life.” — With assistance by Emily Cadman, and Marisa Gertz