St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter meets with Dr. Jill Biden in October. The climate crisis has come to St. Paul not as fire or flood but as a shiny green beetle: The emerald ash borer, an invasive insect that’s been eating its way northward in North America, is devouring a growing share of the Minnesota capital’s tree management budget. Removing dead trees could cost the city $22 million over the next few years, Mayor Melvin Carter says. The warming planet has also manifested in the siege of potholes that afflicts the city’s roadways, since the freeze-thaw cycle now happens more often, steadily increasing municipal maintenance costs. To help the city meet its climate action goals and do its part to combat climate change, Carter wants to double-down on bike lanes, pedestrian-friendly street design and public transit. But keeping up with falling tree limbs and buckled streets is straining St. Paul’s ability to fund basic services, especially amid the economic downturn triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. And the federal government has not been very helpful lately. “We’ve been waiting for an infrastructure week that never happened during the current administration,” Carter says. Many other U.S. cities have been similarly frustrated in their efforts to cope with a warming world. The Climate Mayors, a network of local leaders committed to upholding the Paris Climate Agreement, saw its membership blossom from roughly 80 to a current 468 cities after President Donald Trump left the international agreement in 2017. During that time, many cities found ways to push forward sustainability and clean energy initiatives, even in the absence of federal assistance. Others, however, have failed to live up to their lofty goals. As Marty Walsh, Boston’s mayor and newly named chair of the Climate Mayors, said, “there’s no partner like the federal government.” The group released a statement on Friday, on the fifth anniversary of the Paris accord, to signal their expectations of what might be possible with a White House that actively helps local governments and promises to work with them. With new leadership in D.C. taking over during a critical moment, it’s “absolutely crucial,” says Climate Mayors director James Ritchotte, that the cities that have stepped up on their own during the Trump years finally have a constructive federal partner rather than an open antagonist. “A fundamental part of what we need to do going forward, to create a green and equitable recovery, is to reorient how we invest in infrastructure,” says Ritchotte, whose group advocates for a green Covid recovery, focused on improving public health, equity, and transitioning to a zero-carbon economy. “Biden is talking about leveraging the federal budget to focus on clean energy and renewable power, just as cities are looking at buildings, transit and climate investment. There is no silver bullet, just a multi-pronged approach.” The next six months will be key, according to Laura Jay, North America regional director for C40, an international alliance of cities focused on environmental policy. Can the Biden administration leverage the demand for a Covid recovery and, as the campaign’s Build Back Better slogan suggests, do so in a way that also dramatically advances environmental and equity concerns? The answer hangs in part on the results of the Georgia special elections that will determine Senate control, and thus whether Biden can pass his expansive vision for $2 trillion in climate spending during his first term. But Jay also sees possibilities in executive actions and at the agency level. “To me there’s a real opportunity to create a more formalized mechanism to get cities more integrated early into policy development and implementation, and have mayors play a more formal role within setting policy at the White House,” says Jay. “With the role mayors have played in the campaign, the door is already so wide open.” For cities, the support and funding they get during this moment will go a long way to determining the long-term success of climate initiatives. “We’re in defense mode, taking care of the crises right now,” says St. Paul’s Carter, who notes that the city had to overcome a $20 million shortfall from its $636 million budget this year, reducing funding for nearly every city department, due to the Covid crisis. “We know transportation and buildings are where we can make the most climate impact. And we know the negative impacts of climate change are going to hit our low-income and communities and communities of color the hardest.” Rescuing major U.S. transit agencies from catastrophic service cuts is one obvious transportation priority with both climate and equity implications, but it’s hardly the only one. Cities are also looking for help in transitioning to electric vehicles. In St. Paul, for example, Carter promoted the expansion of charging stations to support EV adoption, relying heavily on a Department of Energy Grant to install 70 charging stations. But he wants to establish many more; Biden’s proposed EV adoption plan, which promises to build half a million charging stations nationwide, offers hope that might be possible. “If there’s no gas stations, it doesn’t matter how nice your car is,” says Carter. “If we can’t build our charging hubs, then your electric vehicle is just something cool to show your neighbor.” Carter, the city’s first African-American mayor, is especially sensitive to the equity gap in transportation policy discussions: He ran for city council in 2007 after his neighborhood was overlooked in the planning for a new light rail line station, even though it had one of the worst levels of transit service in the city. Carter says there needs to be much more flexibility, and a better equity focus, on transit funding. He complains that, when St. Paul asks for federal transportation dollars, it gets on a “20-year waiting list.” To create his city’s first dedicated funding for bike lanes and sidewalk improvements, the city relied on philanthropic and private sector partners. “This ten-year period through 2030 is crucial. If changes don’t happen in this timeframe, we’re looking at a much different climate.” Even in the best of economic times, cities can’t print money or run deficits, says Ritchotte, and they can’t fully self-fund major infrastructure projects like the transit expansions that voters approved in places like Austin, or the electric car-share network that St. Paul is trying to build on. “Cities have the plans, but they need the market incentives to purchase electric vehicles, especially from an equity perspective,” says C40’s Jay. “The federal government has a huge role to play in bridging the gaps between the haves and the have-nots. Cities know where it’s needed. They need help paying for it.” (Disclosure: Michael Bloomberg, the founder and majority owner of CityLab parent Bloomberg LP, is president of C40’s board of  directors.) The same goes for funding to upgrade building energy efficiency. A recent Brookings study argued that new types of financing were needed to help jump-start the massive retrofit programs required to hit emissions reduction goals. Some of the most important steps Biden’s team can take involve fully funding or increasing investment in programs that already work. Examples like weatherization assistance, using the community-development block grant program to fund efficiency improvements, and the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) “need to be uplifted and amplified,” Ritchotte says. That will magnify the impact of one Biden campaign promise, a significant investment in retrofitting four million buildings in four years. One action the Biden White House could take is to simply raise building energy standards across the board, and help level the playing field. Establishing more federal guidelines and standards around building energy efficiency can increase investment, and as Jay suggests, steer more federal investment to communities on the front lines of climate change. “If we say we’re going to adopt stricter energy codes in St. Paul, the argument is always that it’s going to be harder to do business in St. Paul,” Carter says. “There are always these trade-off excuses. Having the federal government ready to lead the way on some of these issues would take away that excuse.” St. Paul created its own energy efficiency loan fund in 2010, now investing $5 million in projects such as LED light upgrades and similar efforts to cut long-term energy costs. But the city is limited by financial constraints. “If the federal government made some kind of loan funds like that available, it would create a significant amount of jobs in our community, we’d cut a lot of carbon emissions from our buildings, and ideally, it would be revenue-neutral because we could pay it back with energy savings,” Carter says. “We’re saving taxpayers money over the long term. It’s a no-brainer.” Expanding access to bonds and investments, and setting up larger green banks for infrastructure investments, could also accelerate local green initiatives. The incoming administration could push to “align transparency on climate risks and opportunities in capital markets,” says Katie Walsh, head of cities, states, and regions for CDP North America, an organization that assesses climate and environmental risk. Updating municipal bond market regulations, which haven’t been changed in decades, to better value climate risk would place more value on climate-focused investments. It’s a lever that the administration could pull to empower the financial tools that fund change. “The next administration should rewrite the rules to incentivize the policy and financing we need to take action,” Walsh says. Phoenix, for instance, successfully issued sustainability bonds, with the help of CDP, attracting investors to help finance new water infrastructure for the fast-growing desert metropolis. “This ten-year period through 2030 is crucial. If decisions and changes don’t happen in this timeframe, we’re looking at a much different climate.” Biden will arrive in the White House with a daunting array of crises and emergencies requiring focus and resources. But for cities trying to push climate action beyond the limitations of the Trump years, the early moves of the new administration will be the most important. “If there’s a role for the federal government, it’s to light the way for the path ahead,” says Carter. “This is a big decision: We’re making a choice between barely keeping the lights on, or investing in upgraded lights for the future.”