Asian stocks opened weaker Tuesday as swelling coronavirus infections across the U.S. weighed on risk assets. The pound pared losses as the U.K. backed down from a threat to break the Brexit agreement. Equity benchmarks slipped in Japan and South Korea, while Australia was little changed. S&P 500 contracts retreated after the benchmark dropped from an all-time high, led by energy and financial stocks, amid fears of restrictions as infections climb. The Nasdaq 100 closed higher for a ninth straight day, its longest winning streak in almost a year. Ten-year Treasury yields dropped back toward 0.9% as risk-off sentiment built up and the dollar held gains against its major peers. Oil dropped and gold was steady after jumping more than 1%. The yen was little changed as Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga unveiled 40 trillion yen (around $380 billion) in fiscal measures as part of stimulus for an economic recovery from the pandemic. As coronavirus cases surge, markets are increasingly looking for a U.S. stimulus deal to be done, especially after last week’s disappointing jobless data. With Republican and Democratic negotiators struggling to reach an agreement on both a mammoth government spending bill and Covid-19 relief, lawmakers are set to postpone what had been a Friday night deadline for passing a bill. Meanwhile, the U.S. announced sanctions Monday against 14 members of China’s National People’s Congress, the country’s rubber-stamp legislature, as the Trump administration tries to ratchet up pressure on Beijing over its crackdown on dissent in Hong Kong. “Signs that traders have trimmed risk are there, with some focus on U.S. Covid trends,” Chris Weston, head of research at Pepperstone Group Ltd., wrote in a note. Renewed focus on trade tensions and the ongoing Brexit negotiations, suggests “this selective mindset is just the market sitting on its hands waiting for the next shoe to drop.” U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is prepared to back down on his threat to break international law by unilaterally ripping up parts of the Brexit divorce deal he signed with the European Union, the government announced Monday. Johnson will travel to Brussels for crisis talks with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen as they try to break the deadlocked negotiations over a post-Brexit trade deal. Anthony Fauci, the U.S. government’s top infectious-disease expert, warned that the Christmas season could be worse than Thanksgiving for fueling the spread of Covid-19 over the subsequent weeks. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Rita Nazareth, Claire Ballentine, and Sophie Caronello