Supercharged by the pandemic-fueled boom in takeaway, the biggest food delivery operation in the U.S. is poised for its trading debut on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday. DoorDash is looking to sell 33 million shares at $90 to $95 apiece, it said in a filing Friday. That would value the company at over $35 billion. The delivery startup’s initial public offering will be one of the largest tech listings of the year. Should you place an order to buy shares? The company has no doubt benefitted from trends in consumer behavior this year. And there is a wave of investor exuberance sweeping the market as hot consumer startups finally move ahead with their much-anticipated IPOs. (Airbnb is expected to list this week, too, and Bloomberg’s Olivia Carville has  a few lingering questions.) Investing in IPOs is risky. Early excitement can push up the price of a new stock to unsustainable levels, which then drop off, weighing down your portfolio. What’s more, some of the  trends that have bolstered DoorDash this year may fade as the pandemic abates. Here are some things to consider: Like other at-home delivery services, DoorDash is a big corporate winner from the pandemic economy. Revenue in the first nine months of the year more than tripled. The company turned a quarterly profit for the first time ever during the three months right at the beginning of the pandemic. And the company’s loyalty program, DashPass, has been growing, with more than 5 million subscribers. Even so, the company is still posting a net loss. In the nine months through September, it lost a net $149 million. That is an improvement from the $533 million loss during the same period a year earlier. But food delivery is an expensive game. Startups in the sector,  including DoorDash, have raised a lot of venture-capital and other funding in an attempt to dominate the market first and turn a profit later. DoorDash’s major focus is the U.S., but the company also has operations in Australia and Canada and is planning to expand elsewhere. Two things stand out. First, its suburban focus. While rivals such as Uber Eats have tended to focus on urban centers, DoorDash has a delivery operation stretching into the suburbs, with a 58% market share there. Tony Xu, DoorDash’s chief executive officer, said  his strategy was to sign exclusive deals with suburban favorites like the Cheesecake Factory and Chili’s restaurants. “That’s how we were able to become the market leader,” Xu said. Second, its plan to move beyond food. In a letter included in DoorDash’s filing, Xu said his plan was to move further into logistics, merchant services and a membership program. “If we can make possible the delivery of ice cream before it melts, or pizza before it gets cold, or groceries in an hour, we can make the on-demand delivery of anything within a city a reality,” he wrote. If you see pandemic-era behavioral shifts sticking. As the market leader in the U.S., DoorDash is in a prime position to benefit if the pandemic leads to permanent changes in the way consumers order food from restaurants and, eventually, other goods. “We believe there is a long runway of growth ahead for DoorDash and expect consumers to continue to favor food delivery even beyond the pandemic,” Asad Hussain, lead mobility analyst at research firm PitchBook, wrote in an email. If you envision a continued suburban boom. Across the world there’s been a push for space from those who can afford to move out of cities and into the suburbs. DoorDash’s tactic of focusing on those areas pre-pandemic could give it a vital first-mover advantage as more middle class consumers back the move out. If you are bullish on drones. DoorDash is investing in autonomous and drone delivery technologies. Theoretically, removing drivers from the delivery equation could reduce costs for the firm and increase profitability. If you see a reversion back to pre-pandemic norms. Food delivery surged as people worked from home, but a vaccine and consumer hankering to get back to normal life could spell trouble for DoorDash and its competitors. “This peak is already subsiding a little bit,” said Tri Tran, a principal at advisory firm Applico who previously co-founded  a food delivery company that shut in 2019. “I expect this to subside — perhaps still growing, but it won’t be so crazy a bump as it’s been in the past six to nine months.” If you have concerns about regulatory risk. Like its rivals, DoorDash relies on an army of contract workers to deliver food. There’s mounting global unease about the precarious nature of such work, and growing pressure for workers’ rights to be protected. California voters approved  Proposition 22, a ballot measure bankrolled by Uber, Lyft, Postmates, DoorDash and Instacart that declares their drivers independent contractors. This was good news for delivery services and may bolster their business model. But the fight is far from over. If you fear fickle customers. Food delivery is a crowded space with a number of well-funded rivals, including deep-pocketed Uber. Loyalty programs encourage customers to keep using the same apps, but the stickiness of these services is still weak. If a customer isn’t happy with the offerings of one app, there is little keeping her from switching to a competitor. If you’re bearish on the restaurant industry. Nearly one in six U.S. restaurants have closed since the start of the pandemic and the National Restaurant Association estimates the industry could lose $240 billion this year. DoorDash, of course, has plans to move beyond food. But right now it relies pretty significantly on restaurants.