Sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, follow us  @Brexit and subscribe to our podcast. Brexit negotiations resumed in Brussels amid signs that even as one of the biggest obstacles to a trade deal is on the way to being resolved, another key sticking point remained. As the U.K. and European Union strive to finalize a deal before Monday evening, a compromise on the longstanding stumbling block of access to British fishing waters is starting to emerge, two people with knowledge of the discussion on both sides said. That would leave the level competitive playing field as the main remaining and stubborn issue. “Things are on a knife edge and it’s serious. My gut instinct is it’s 50-50,” Irish Prime Minister Micheal Martin said in an interview with broadcaster RTE on Sunday. “I don’t think one can be overly optimistic about a resolution emerging.” The U.K. will leave the European single market and customs union on Dec. 31 -- with or without an agreement. Both the European and U.K. parliaments need to ratify any accord, so one has to be reached before then to be implemented in time. People close to the talks have long speculated that if a deal is to be done, the EU would probably have to give in to some of Britain’s demands on fishing in return for the U.K. signing up to tougher competition rules for business. Two people familiar with the British government’s position cautioned that fisheries still remain a significant obstacle. One of them said there has been no breakthrough, and nothing had been achieved on the subject on Sunday. Two EU officials pushed back on a Guardian report of a major breakthrough on fish. Sterling dropped in Asian trading, leading losses among G-10 currencies, before paring earlier declines. The EU wants to bind the British government to its rules on subsidies, labor rights and environmental standards so that U.K. firms don’t enjoy an unfair advantage over their continental rivals if they are granted tariff and quota-free access to the bloc’s single market. The U.K. is reluctant to be bound by future changes to EU rules on grounds of sovereignty. Michel Barnier, the EU’s chief negotiator, will update ambassadors from the bloc’s 27 members on the state of the deliberations at 7:30 a.m. in Brussels on Monday. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen will hold a telephone call later in the evening. By then, the two sides want to be able to say if there’s a deal, or concede that an accord is beyond reach. Johnson is now “wobbling,” former EU trade commissioner and Labour business secretary Peter Mandelson told Times Radio on Sunday. “It goes to the heart of his Brexit dilemma over having a trade deal at all,” he said. “Does he go for a deal that salvages, to an extent, our manufacturing trade with Europe essentially through eliminating border tariffs and, in effect, staying closer to Europe than, frankly, he feels comfortable with. Or does he dispense with a deal, go for a clean break with our biggest export market by far, in Europe, and take a chance.” With the negotiations moving only slowly, one EU official warned that expectations that an agreement will be reached within 24 hours are low. The EU has said that a summit of its 27 leaders that begins on Thursday now marks the effective deadline for a Brexit deal. Expectations of a deal had been growing last week. But negotiations broke down with the British side accusing their EU counterparts of putting fresh demands on the table at the last minute, something European officials deny. After a one-hour phone call on Saturday, Johnson and von der Leyen agreed to resume talks in Brussels -- but both acknowledged that “significant differences” remain. One British official characterized the resumption of negotiations as the last throw of the dice. Talks are “in a very difficult position, there is no point in denying that,” U.K. Environment Secretary George Eustice told Sky News’s “Sophy Ridge on Sunday” show. “We will continue to work on these negotiations until there is no point doing so any further, but there is no point denying that what happened late last week was a setback.” Complicating the negotiation further, the U.K.’s Internal Market Bill will return to the House of Commons on Monday. The government intends to reinstate controversial clauses that would give ministers power to rewrite parts of the original Brexit divorce deal after the House of Lords removed them. The EU has threatened legal action over the measure. In a signal that he could still be preparing for an agreement, Johnson is now prepared to drop the clauses if they’re no longer needed, people familiar said. Why Brexit Talks Aren’t Over and Still Threaten Chaos: QuickTake Fish Are Chips in Post-Brexit Trade Bargaining: QuickTake Why State Aid Has Become a Stumbling Block in Brexit: QuickTake The disagreement over the level playing field revolves around the EU’s demand to bind the U.K. to any future changes the bloc makes to its environmental and labor rules. If Britain refused to implement those changes, it would face retaliatory tariffs. The EU also wants to require the U.K. to set up an independent regulator on state subsides that would be able to rule against decisions before any money was handed out. While Paris’s hard line on fisheries has received the most attention, French officials have also talked tough on the level playing field. The two sides are also still at odds over how any agreement would be enforced, with the EU wanting to be able to punish any breaches of the deal with retaliation in other areas -- something Britain has so far rejected. — With assistance by Andrew Atkinson, Dara Doyle, and Alberto Nardelli