U.S. regulators gave early indications they may grant emergency-use authorization to Pfizer Inc.’s vaccine, calling the shot highly effective with no safety issues. Britain became the first country to start administering the shot to its population, kicking off the western world’s Covid immunization campaign. Germany plans to vaccinate as many as 8 million people in the first quarter of 2021, as the state of Saxony imposed tougher measures to contain the nation’s highest rate of infection. Hong Kong is also returning to broader curbs. Meanwhile, Singapore’s success in containing the virus helped it secure next year’s World Economic Forum. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID The vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech meets the requirements for an emergency-use authorization set out by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, according to a 92-page staff report analyzing the companies’ clinical development program. The shot, given twice about a month apart, appears safe and effective, reducing the likelihood of developing the infection by 95% a week after volunteers received the second injection. The injection could be as much as 97.6% effective, with just eight cases developing in the vaccine arm and 162 among those who got the placebo. The shot also appeared effective in people who had previously been infected, a reassuring finding suggesting that not everyone must be tested for antibodies to the virus before getting immunized. The side effects appear mild, and they are more common in younger people. Switzerland and Italy are interrupting rail services between the two countries from Dec. 10 until further notice, according to a statement from the Swiss railway operator SBB. The decision follows a decree by the Italian government. The countries are trying to stem infection levels ahead of the Christmas period. Searches for the word vaccine on Amazon.com Inc., Barnes & Noble Inc. and French retailer Fnac consistently turn up books and essays questioning the efficacy and safety of virus inoculations — an ominous sign as governments around the world prepare to roll out shots. Two of the top five books in “vaccine” search results on Amazon.com promote anti-inoculation theories. Biological E., an Indian vaccine producer, expects to start phase three human trials of its Covid-19 candidate by April, Executive Vice President Vikram Paradkar told an online conference on Tuesday. Paradkar said the company will probably seek emergency authorization by the second quarter of 2021 and eventually supply 1.5 billion doses globally. Germany plans to vaccinate as many as 8 million people in the first quarter of 2021, including potentially 2.5 million in January, Health Minister Jens Spahn told a parliamentary committee Tuesday. There may be enough doses in the second or third quarter to allow anyone to get a shot. A soft shutdown in all of Germany has so far failed to bring contagion rates down to manageable levels, and some states are pushing through tougher measures. The eastern state of Saxony, which has the nation’s highest rate of infection, plans to close all non-essential shops from next week. Finance Minister Olaf Scholz laid out an agenda on Tuesday that sees Europe’s largest economy continuing to spend aggressively beyond the immediate fallout of the coronavirus. A ultra-nationalist politician said deputies of Russia’s lower house of parliament, the State Duma, should be issued spacesuits given the lack of social distancing during sessions. Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the septuagenarian leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, said the nearly 400 lawmakers who attended a plenary meeting on Tuesday were undermining sanitary measures, Ria Novosti reported. Almost a third of deputies have had the virus and 15 are hospitalized, Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin said Tuesday, according to the report. Iran reported a resurgence of daily virus fatalities after six straight days of declines, with 323 deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of new cases rose to 11,023 from 10,827 on Monday, the Health Ministry reported. The total death toll has reached 50,917. Slovenia reported 66 deaths from Covid-19, a new daily high, as lockdown measures fail to significantly limit growth of new cases and the number of hospitalizations. Total infections have reached 87,915, with a death toll of 1,862. A clash between two Slovak top leaders is adding to a sense of exasperation as the European Union country heads into a new lockdown with infections on the rise. President Zuzana Caputova has criticized the government for lacking a clear Covid plan, asking Premier Igor Matovic to delegate handling of the outbreak. The prime minister blamed her for siding with the opposition. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke to TV reporters as the U.K. vaccine rollout began Tuesday, saying it was “really very moving” to talk with an elderly woman who was one of the first to have the shot. “It’s important for people to understand that the virus is alas, still rising in some parts of the country,” he said. “We can’t afford to relax now.” The U.K. is the first western nation to begin the immunizations, having approved the jab last week. People over 80 are at the front of the line for the shot made by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE. Chinese vaccine maker Sinovac Biotech Ltd.’s coronavirus shot created antibodies among 97% of those administered with it in a final stage trial in Indonesia, a company spokesperson said on Tuesday. Known as the seroconversion rate, this is separate from the vaccine’s efficacy, as a high seroconversion rate doesn’t necessarily mean that the vaccine effectively protects people against Covid-19. Sinovac is still in the midst of determining its shot’s efficacy from final stage trial data, the spokesperson said. Thailand is stepping up border surveillance by deploying drones and ultraviolet cameras after dozens of new cases were found linked to a town in neighboring Myanmar. At least 16 people who illegally crossed the borders and avoided the mandatory 14-day quarantine have tested positive for coronavirus since late November, with two local transmissions being traced back to the group that came from Myanmar, according to officials. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha ordered officials on Monday to erect barricades along the porous border to stop illegal crossings and curb infection risks. Indonesia’s government plans to begin inoculating those on the front lines of the pandemic, including health workers and law enforcement, in January, Wiku Adisasmito, a spokesman for the task force, said in a televised address. Inoculations can begin pending quality and safety checks, as well as the issuance of an emergency use authorization from the food and drug regulator, known as BPOM. The first batch of vaccine ordered from China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. arrived in Indonesia late Sunday. India has added 26,567 new infections, according to the latest data from the federal Health Ministry Tuesday, the lowest number since early July. With more than 9.6 million cases, the country remains the world’s second-most affected nation after the U.S. While new infections have been on a steady decline since mid-September, experts have cautioned that the testing regimen -- relying heavily on less-accurate rapid antigen tests -- may understate the scale of the epidemic. Seoul authories are converting shipping containers into temporary hospital wards to accommodate a potential overflow of patients in the South Korean capital. Containers at Seoul Medical Center’s headquarters and its two branches will create 150 extra beds by Dec. 15, Park Yoo-mi, the city’s disease control official, said at a briefing. Nearly 90% of hospital beds dedicated to the treatment of infectious diseases were occupied as of Monday, Park said. Abu Dhabi has started a volunteer program for Phase 3 clinical trials of Russia’s vaccine, Sputnik V. The oil-rich capital of the United Arab Emirates is initially seeking 500 volunteers, according to the Abu Dhabi Government Media Office. Developers of the vaccine have said that initial testing showed it was 91.4% effective in preventing infections, although final results haven’t yet been published in a peer-reviewed journal. Hong Kong will ban dining in at restaurants from 6 p.m. local time and close gyms and beauty salons, as the government returns to some of the broadest measures since the pandemic began amid a growing surge in cases. Chief Executive Carrie Lam announced the dining restrictions at a weekly press briefing Tuesday. The ban will take effect Thursday for 14 days, Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan said. The Asian financial hub is struggling to contain its latest wave of Covid-19 infections, with case numbers often exceeding 100 a day last week -- the most since August. That’s prompted the government to gradually tighten its social distancing rules, recently raising fines for those breaching restrictions and sending civil servants back to working from home. South Korea secured enough doses for 10 million people through a vaccine-purchasing program led by the World Health Organization, and for a further 34 million people through deals with vaccine developers. AstraZeneca Plc, Moderna Inc. and Pfizer -- whose vaccines require two shots --will each supply 20 million doses, while Johnson & Johnson will supply 4 million. Vaccine imports will start in February. South Korea’s government has secured a budget of 1.3 trillion won ($1.2 billion) for the purchases. The World Economic Forum will hold its 2021 annual meeting in Singapore instead of its traditional home of Switzerland, which is battling a rise in infections. The high-profile gathering will be held in the Asian financial hub May 13-16 and return to Davos-Klosters, Switzerland, in 2022, the World Economic Forum said. The meeting will also include a virtual component to allow greater participation, according to Singapore’s Ministry of Trade and Industry. U.S. officials insisted they’ll have enough Covid-19 vaccine doses to let most Americans get inoculated by next summer, downplaying reports that they passed up a chance to secure more of Pfizer’s shot. The Trump administration is confident that the U.S. will have enough supply to vaccinate everyone, a senior administration official said Monday on a call with reporters. The government signed a deal last summer to obtain 100 million doses of Pfizer’s vaccine -- enough for 50 million people -- and also has agreements in place with others. South Korea’s pharmaceutical company GL Rapha will begin full-scale production of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine in January after sending test products to Russia this month, Maeil Business Newspaper reported, citing an unidentified company official. GL Rapha’s pharmaceuticals manufacturing unit will produce 150 million doses to be exported to the Middle East, the report said. — With assistance by Reinie Booysen