Around the world, neighborhoods are being reshaped as Covid-19 leaves businesses struggling for survival. But one Hong Kong district has flourished in the pandemic, with new shops popping up every few weeks and young people watching the world go by while sipping on hand-drip coffee. A cluster of cafes, handicraft shops and art spaces have opened around Sham Shui Po’s Tai Nan Street since the start of the year, accelerating its transformation from one of the city’s poorest districts into a hipster area frequented by middle-class Hongkongers and expats. In October, Time Out named Sham Shui Po as one of the coolest neighborhoods in the world, ranking alongside downtown Los Angeles, New York’s Bedford-Stuyvesant and Barcelona’s Esquerra de l’Eixample. But the reinvention is triggering concerns about gentrification in an area that’s home to some of Hong Kong’s most vulnerable residents. While Hong Kong is one of the world’s most expensive cities — with its sparkling skyscrapers set against the harbor — it also has one of the  worst inequality rates among developed nations. A walk through Sham Shui Po reveals the city’s less glossy side: Elderly people collect leftover cardboard for money, street vendors sell second-hand goods and aging tenement buildings house subdivided units so small that some are called “coffin homes.” Households here have the second-lowest median income in the city at HK$24,300 ($3,135) a month. The pandemic has been hard on many poorer communities, but for owners of the area’s new crop of shops and cafes there’s been an unexpected upside: With overseas travel off the agenda, well-off Hong Kong residents have been forced to entertain themselves within the densely packed city. “People can’t travel so they are stuck here with money. And coffee shops can digest their need to travel to somewhere,” said Henry Hui, a manager at Flow, a cafe that opened on Tai Nan Street in July. Tin Yan Wong, the founder of a cultural space called Form Society, agrees. “There is a need to digest the local demand for recreation and shopping” following the pandemic and the protests that rocked the city last year, Wong said. Places like Sham Shui Po offer a change of pace from the city’s monotonous shopping malls, he said. Wong estimates that about 20 new coffee shops have opened in the area in just a year, compared to just two or three when he first arrived in 2017. The government is encouraging the inflow of visitors; the Hong Kong Tourism Board featured the area in a local campaign in June. Young entrepreneurs are “bringing new flavors to Sham Shui Po, from cool cafes to casual diners, injecting new energy and attitude to this bustling district,” a spokesperson said in a statement. But an influx of new businesses without an understanding of the local culture is often a sign of gentrification, according to Mee Kam Ng, a professor in the Department of Geography and Resource Management at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. So are rising rents. Prices for retail properties in Tai Nan Street have surged by 54% in 2020, compared with 2017, according to a Bloomberg calculation using Midland Commercial data. In the 1950s, Hong Kong was one of Asia’s biggest textile exporters and in the decades that followed, Sham Shui Po was home to thousands of wholesalers, processing factories and shops. But as production costs rose, manufacturers began to move their operations to the mainland. “The 1990s were the golden days. If you walked down the street back then, all you could see were the textile shops,” said Amy Mak, who has been in the industry for more than four decades. “But many people have left the trade. The next generation doesn’t want to take up the business either.” The pandemic killed off a number of old stores that were already struggling to survive, according to Jay Li, an elected councilor representing the neighborhood. This created a supply of empty, relatively affordable shopfronts in one of the world’s most expensive rental markets. The transformation has been so rapid in recent months that even Li, whose job is to serve the neighborhood, finds stores he doesn’t recognize when he visits. “There are basically new shops opening every week,” Li said. Sham Shui Po’s new visitors are boosting economic activity in the area beyond the coffee shops: The neighborhood is known for its cheap electronics and handicraft materials and there are signs some of the new visitors are stocking up. But not all long-time residents are benefiting. On a recent Monday afternoon, a dozen elderly people waited outside a restaurant for free lunch-boxes just a minute’s walk from Hui’s shiny coffee shop. Textile shop owner Mak said the stylish visitors who come for coffee never shop at her place. However, Li argues the new shops shouldn’t be blamed. “I would say that the shops are an agent of change but not the culprit,” he said. “If the rents increase, they have to leave too.” Form Society is one of the relatively new additions that’s focused on creating cultural connection to Sham Shui Po. The space organizes seminars and events to teach visitors about the neighborhood. At one workshop, participants searched for materials in local stores and used them to build pieces of furniture. Vintage store ShopLittleTwo sources its stock locally, owner Eddie Yuen said. “When I search for antiques, I would buy from the street vendors in nearby streets,”  he said. “But for cafes, they wouldn’t import locally.” Hipsters aren’t the only ones to notice Sham Shui Po’s rental bargains. With property speculators taking an interest in the area, even newer arrivals like Yuen and Wong are beginning to worry about the future of Tai Nan Street. Wong predicts Form Society will be priced out by rising rents within two years. “We are not here to show off the grassroot culture, but the question is how we can combine our business with the local culture,” he said. “When they open a cafe that looks the same like those in Central, they are eroding the distinctive characteristic here,” said Wong. While change may seem inevitable, residents still have the power to preserve their home. “If you have people who live in the place who really treasure the values of the place, and they want to defend it, that is the force to resist this standard trend of gentrification,” said Ng, the professor. “It really depends on how people respond to it.”