Illustration: Klaus Kremmerz Illustration: Klaus Kremmerz My advice for traveling during the coronavirus pandemic has remained constant and simple since March: Don’t. That may sound odd coming from a travel editor whose job is to always find a way to  get out and explore the world—and stranger still considering  the extreme duress that border closures and social distancing have placed on the hospitality industry’s shoulders. They need visitors as much as we need a break. But those who run hotels and guide excursions will hurt much more in the long run if we don’t heed the call of the moment by staying home just a bit longer. In the meantime, the industry has adopted a previously unthinkable set of practices that put the focus squarely on providing the safest experience and best service possible, whether it’s  antimicrobial TSA bins or blocked middle seats and every-other-row seating configurations. Hotels are  regularly disinfecting lobbies, and their concierges are using  SMS-based communications instead of having guests line up face to face. And suites have even been  transformed into private dining rooms for Michelin-starred restaurants that normally parade elaborate dishes to elbow-to-elbow-packed diners. Take out the reasoning behind it all—these are desperate attempts to save lives and businesses—and some of these changes veer into indulgence. Here’s the truth: Pre-pandemic, travel companies were more concerned with adding thrills than identifying and updating the rusty cogs in their machines. Look at Peninsula Hotels, whose 10 properties around the world are bastions of white-glove hospitality. Until lately, the company’s energy had been concentrated on curating art for public spaces and drumming up exclusive, expensive activities such as a multicourse brunch on the Great Wall of China. Sure, these flourishes added sophistication to an already fabulous brand. But you know what guests will really appreciate? The ability to check in and out at any hour of the day, free of charge—an amenity Peninsula is rolling out in January. Similarly, frequent flyers may have gotten a kick out of United Airlines Inc.’s Star Wars-themed plane, which took to the skies in 2019, but they’ll be more gratified by the carrier’s decision in November to open first-class lavatories to economy passengers. Gimmicks won’t sell in 2021, but flexibility—that formerly forgotten tenet of hospitality—will. It used to cost more than $200 to modify the dates on even a cheap domestic flight. Now, American, Delta, United, and Alaska Airlines have  all committed to nixing a majority of those inane change fees for the foreseeable future. The same is true for loyalty. Years of devalued programs had made it  impossible to earn status with good old points and miles, leaving customers feeling more ripped-off than respected. Now the race to win back business is on: Most companies have put a stop to points expirations, and across the board it’s easier than ever to redeem them. These changes are set to last, given the unlikelihood that business travel  will immediately rebound now that we’re (somewhat) conversant in Zoom. And I don’t imagine airlines will suddenly stop cleaning seatback screens and armrests between each flight—which was shockingly not part of the protocol before Covid-19. This reassessment of basic values goes beyond promoting public health and economic recovery. While protesters were taking to the streets worldwide to fight racial inequality, the travel industry looked inward, too. Research from the Castell Project, a nonprofit normally focused on advancing women into executive hospitality roles, found that Black men and women hold fewer than 1.5% of the hotel industry’s senior-most roles despite representing almost 20% of its workforce. That’s even worse than the meager 5% average across other industries. Customers in 2021 and beyond should demand better—not only in the services being provided to them, but in expecting executives to keep their word when it comes to promoting diversity within their ranks, as the chief executive officers of Delta, United, InterContinental Hotels, Marriott, and so many more have promised. After all, increasing representation inside the industry will help more travelers feel welcome when exploring the world— a social and economic boon. As for where we go? That may evolve for the better, too. We’ve seen that the waters of Venice  are clearer without cruise ships passing by daily, but that community-owned conservation in Kenya is almost impossible to pull off  without the flow of tourism dollars. Whether we reshape our bucket lists to prioritize tourism-dependent destinations instead of tourism-spoiled ones is up to us.