Sign up to our Brexit Bulletin, follow us @Brexit and subscribe to our podcast. Honda Motor Co. halted work at its Civic plant in the U.K. as ports struggle to cope with the confluence of Covid-19 cases, the holiday rush and preparations for Brexit. The Japanese automaker won’t run its factory in Swindon, England, on Wednesday because of delayed parts deliveries, a spokesman said. The plant that employs more than 3,000 workers and will close permanently next year is trying to restart output as soon as possible. Carmakers have been bracing for border turmoil with just weeks to go before the end of the Brexit transition period. Luxury-car maker Bentley has put cargo planes on standby to possibly transport vehicle bodies, engines or other parts, while Vauxhall maker PSA Group warned last week that disruptions are inevitable even if there’s a last-minute trade deal reached with the European Union. Number of cars produced annually Source: SMMT 2019 data Note: Annual vehicle production at Britain’s eight largest plants. JLR number is the total for its three plants The industry has repeatedly warned of catastrophe if the U.K. fails to reach a post-Brexit trade deal with the bloc. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is due to fly to Brussels for dinner with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Wednesday as both sides seek to save the negotiations. Read more: U.K. Carmakers Warn of $74 Billion Blow from Brexit The container port at Felixstowe, England, where Honda gets its supplies from Asia, has been severely congested by the usual blitz related to Christmas and companies looking to stockpile goods before the Brexit transition period ends Jan. 1. That’s prompted a number of cargo ships to skip stopping at the port and instead go on to their next destination. Honda has a just-in-time production system where parts from suppliers go straight into the factory and are installed in cars rolling down the assembly line. If just one component is missing, it can halt the assembly line. The carmaker is considering using air freight to move some of its critical parts. Michael Gove, the U.K. cabinet minister in charge of Brexit negotiations, downplayed the extent to which Britain leaving the EU is playing a role in Honda having to idle its factory. “This primarily has to do with global factors,” he said in an LBC radio interview. “Inevitably at this time of year, you get people who want to stock up in their warehouses. And I think that there’ll be different reasons why people were doing that.” The U.K. and Europe are tightly intertwined in terms of automotive trade. The absence of a deal would have severe consequences for manufacturers because a 10% duty could be applied to cars and 4% levy would hit parts. Even a “bare-bones” accord that doesn’t address rules of origin for components and other issues would cost the industry 14.1 billion pounds ($18.9 billion), according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders. — With assistance by Kitty Donaldson