Asian stocks looked poised for gains after their U.S. peers halted a four-day losing streak, as Congress moved toward a spending package that would boost the economy. Treasuries retreated ahead of the Federal Reserve decision. Futures pointed higher in Hong Kong and Japan, and Australian shares rose, after the S&P 500 rebounded from its longest slide since September. U.S. contracts were little changed. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said he will keep lawmakers in Washington until a deal gets done. The 10-year Treasury yield moved above 0.90% as investors awaited the conclusion of the Fed’s two-day meeting on Wednesday. The dollar weakened for a second day. Oil advanced with gold. Investors are growing increasingly confident that Democratic and Republican lawmakers will clinch a bill based on a $748 billion bipartisan proposal that would inject cash directly into the economy as prior benefits begin to expire at the end of the year. Meanwhile, traders are eyeing whether the Fed alters its bond purchase program or keeps the status quo. “There’s a very good chance of a cyclical recovery,” George Bory, fixed income specialist at Wells Fargo Asset Management, said on Bloomberg TV. “Your best bet right now is that the Fed basically just extends out some of that forward guidance and tries to preserve as much optionality as possible.” Elsewhere, the pound rose and credit markets strengthened as Brexit negotiators pushed to reach a final trade deal. Following a weekend of intense diplomatic activity, Michel Barnier, who leads the EU team, said he can see a pathway to a deal -- if the two sides can resolve what he called their significant differences. Ian Lyngen, head of U.S. rates strategy at BMO Capital Markets, discusses dovish expectations for Federal Reserve Policy and the Fed’s deepening control of the U.S. Treasury market. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Jeremy Herron, David Wilson, and Vildana Hajric