Until last spring, Tsikhanouskaya led the life of a typical Belorussian homemaker, focused largely on caring for her two children and coping with the inevitable challenges of getting by in a post-Soviet republic where the average monthly salary is about $500. But for the past six months, she’s spent her days speaking at international conferences,  chatting with the likes of Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron, and spearheading the biggest democratic movement in the history of the troubled country sandwiched between Poland and Russia. Tsikhanouskaya became the face of democracy in Belarus almost by accident. In May police detained her husband, Siarhei, a political blogger, as he prepared to challenge Lukashenko for the presidency. After the arrest, Tsikhanouskaya, 38, decided to run in Siarhei’s place and began gathering the signatures needed to register her candidacy. The former English teacher soon received telephone threats, prompting her to send her children abroad—but steeling her resolve to run. “People began calling me, telling me, ‘So many people were collecting these signatures, standing up for you,’” Tsikhanouskaya says via Zoom in lightly accented English. “I realized that I can’t betray those hopes.” Lukashenko, who has routinely jailed political opponents and deployed security forces to  maintain his grip on power for 26 years, barred most opposition figures from running. But in July the authorities accepted the applications of Tsikhanouskaya and three nominally independent candidates with no prospect of winning. As the opposition united behind Tsikhanouskaya, she began drawing huge crowds, culminating in a rally on July 30 attended by some 60,000 people—spooking authorities into barring her from holding any further mass campaign events. Tsikhanouskaya’s platform was simple: She promised to release political prisoners and to step down within six months after overseeing free elections. Although her message clearly resonated, when the  results of the Aug. 9 election were tallied, Lukashenko claimed to have received 80% of the votes in a contest the U.S. and the European Union say was neither free nor fair. Lukashenko’s response triggered unprecedented demonstrations, with crowds swelling to more than 100,000 but remaining mostly peaceful in the face of brutal police crackdowns, mass arrests, and allegations that detained activists were being tortured. When Tsikhanouskaya filed a fraud complaint with the election commission on the day after the vote, she was detained for seven hours in the capital, Minsk. That night she fled to neighboring Lithuania, where her children had been living with friends since June. Becoming a public figure wasn’t easy. Tsikhanouskaya recalls fearing she would forget what she intended to say during early interviews and speeches. But with time she became energized by the crowds. “I just started to talk from my heart,” she says. She rejects the notion that she heads the opposition in Belarus, saying the movement is self-organizing. More important, she insists that the people who speak out against Lukashenko’s tactics aren’t the opposition at all: “We are the majority.” Key to Tsikhanouskaya’s appeal, says Artyom Shraibman, founder of political consulting firm Sense Analytics in Minsk, is that she’s a “reluctant politician.” Other than achieving her goal of new elections, “she doesn’t want any power,” says Shraibman, who runs a popular Belarus politics blog on the Telegram messaging service, which is difficult for authorities to block. “She’s demonstrated a level of courage no male politician has shown.” Tsikhanouskaya’s days in exile are filled by strategy meetings with groups back in Belarus—where she yearns to return, though she says she can’t while Lukashenko remains in power. She says she has few regrets about her current position, beyond the toll it’s taken on her family; with Siarhei in a Minsk jail, the couple’s daughter “cries every evening, ‘I want my dad’ ”—which keeps Tsikhanouskaya focused on doing the work that will let her reunite the family back home. “I don’t have a right to cry, to panic,” she says. “I just maintain a cold mind and do what I have to do.”