The U.S. approved Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use. Mexico also authorized the jab and Canada will start immunizations as early as Monday. Additionally, the U.S. doubled its order for a Moderna Inc. inoculation that’s expected to gain clearance next week. U.S. deaths and infections set new daily records. Cases surged in Los Angeles, the most populous U.S. county, where one in 20 people have caught Covid-19. Germany’s caseload retreated from Friday’s records as officials weighed imposing a hard lockdown. Further social-distancing measures in South Korea may become inevitable, the prime minister said. Limits on opening hours for restaurants and bars in Tokyo may be imposed for longer as infections rise, Nikkei said. Sweden faces a shortage of health-care workers as exhausted staff resign in higher numbers. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID South Korean Prime Minister Chung Sye-Kyun said it’s inevitable that social-distancing measures will be tightened to the strictest level unless the country’s outbreak can be contained. A record 950 cases were reported Saturday, of which 928 were local infections, according to the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. That’s despite restrictions at the second-highest level of 2.5 out of a scale of 3 in the greater Seoul area since Tuesday.​ Diners sit inside a fast food restaurant in Seoul yesterday. Photographer: Ed Jones/AFP/Getty Images Germany’s new coronavirus infections and deaths retreated from Friday’s records, as officials weigh imposing a hard lockdown to check the spread of the disease. There were 27,217 new cases in the 24 hours through Saturday morning, and the number of fatalities rose by 503, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. On Friday, infections jumped by 32,734 and deaths increased by 604. Both gains were the biggest since the start of the pandemic. Chancellor Angela Merkel and the leaders of Germany’s 16 states are expected at a meeting Sunday to agree on tightening restrictions, including closing non-essential stores and prolonging the school vacation. New Zealand has recorded a new case of coronavirus from an Air New Zealand crew member who tested positive after a flight from the U.S. on Dec. 9, health authorities said Saturday. The U.S. reported 3,309 more virus-related fatalities, a new daily record that took the country’s death toll from the pandemic to 295,450. Daily infections surged by a record 231,711, taking total cases to 15.8 million. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use, the agency said on its website Friday. The decision to authorize the use of Pfizer and partner BioNTech SE’s vaccine will set in motion a complicated immunization drive that will launch across the country in coming days. Among the first to be inoculated will be health-care workers and seniors living in long-term care facilities. A vial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech. Photographer: Victoria Jones/AFP/Getty Images Mexico’s health agency has authorized the Pfizer vaccine for emergency use, Deputy Health Minister Hugo Lopez-Gatell said. Hospital occupancy in Mexico City, where 78% of general hospital beds are taken, is accelerating and the capital needs to take urgent action to slow the virus, Lopez-Gatell said. Mexico reported 12,253 new cases late Friday, bringing the total to 1,229,379. Deaths rose 693 to 113,019. The Greater Los Angeles area added a record 13,815 new cases as the number of infections reached 501,635. The county, which has the highest number of cases and deaths in the U.S., reported 50 new deaths for a total of 8,199. People wait in line at a Covid-19 testing center in Los Angeles earlier on Tuesday. Photographer: Frederic J. Brown/AFP/Getty Images “We are on a very dangerous track to seeing unprecedented suffering and death here in L.A. County,” the public health department said in a tweet. Canada will begin its immunization campaign as early as Monday, with 30,000 initial doses of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine making their way from Belgium. Quebec, which has suffered the majority of Canada’s more than 13,000 virus deaths, said it expects inoculations to start Monday. Ontario is targeting Tuesday and will give priority to health-care workers. The U.S. government will buy an additional 100 million doses of a vaccine candidate known as mRNA-1273 from Moderna. If authorized by the FDA for emergency use, the vaccine would being shipping immediately and be provided at no cost to Americans, the Department of Health and Human Services said in a statement. Securing 200 million doses provides for continuous delivery through next June, according to HHS. White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said that FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn’s job could be on the line if his agency doesn’t soon approve Pfizer Inc.’s coronavirus vaccine, according to a person familiar with the matter. Stephen Hahn Photographer: Alex Edelman/AFP/Bloomberg The warning came in a phone call with Hahn on Friday intended to push the Food and Drug Administration to swiftly approve the vaccine. In a statement, Hahn disputed a Washington Post report that Meadows told Hahn to submit his resignation if the vaccine doesn’t receive an emergency-use authorization by the end of the day. California reported a record 35,468 new cases Friday, a 2.4% increase from the previous day, and 159 deaths. The state’s tally now sits at 1.49 million infections and 20,622 fatalities in total. A stay-home order was imposed on about two-thirds of the state’s population over the weekend. Hospitalizations jumped 3.6% in 24 hours to a record 12,940 patients. Just 1,450 ICU beds remain available in the state, the fewest since data were tracked at the start of the outbreak. The World Health Organization will review vaccines by Pfizer, BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca over the “next couple of weeks” to determine whether to grant them emergency-use licenses, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said Friday. Several countries and global procurement agencies such as UNICEF rely on WHO’s pre-qualification services for vaccines and drugs, Swaminathan said. France’s pace of new cases increased further over the past week, with the seven-day average of daily cases approaching 12,000 on Friday, according to official data. Prime Minister Jean Castex on Thursday canceled plans to reopen theaters, museums, cinemas and sports facilities next week as the government’s target for reducing average new cases to 5,000 a day by Dec. 15 remains out of reach. Governor Andrew Cuomo will close indoor dining at New York City restaurants after coronavirus statistics surpassed benchmarks. Outdoor dining and takeout can continue. New York recorded 10,595 new cases statewide, Cuomo said on Twitter. It’s the third consecutive day of more than 10,000 cases. Indoor dining will close in New York City starting Monday.Hospitalizations have not stabilized, and with a rising infection rate and NYC’s density, this means that indoor dining is too high of a risk.Takeout, delivery and outdoor dining will continue. — With assistance by Angus Whitley, Matthew Burgess, Shamim Adam, and Iain Rogers