Ursula von der Leyen speaks at the European Parliament in Brussels, on Dec. 16. Photographer: John Thys/AFP/Getty Images Photographer: John Thys/AFP/Getty Images European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said fishing rights are now the last major hurdle to a post-Brexit trade deal. As negotiations continued in Brussels, she told the European Parliament that a deal is possible, but difficult. “As things stand, I can’t tell you if there will be a deal or not,” she said. Optimism has grown after the two sides agreed to continue discussions past their self-imposed Sunday deadline and the EU’s chief negotiator Michel Barnier said he saw a “narrow path” to a deal this week if differences can be bridged. Read More: A Brexit Vote on Christmas Day? The Dash to Ratify Any Agreement (All times are U.K.) BMW AG warned that a no-deal Brexit would cost the German carmaker hundreds of millions of euros. Chief Financial Officer Nicolas Peter said on Wednesday that he’s concerned about the state of the negotiations between the U.K. and EU. The 10% tariffs on autos that would follow a hard Brexit would cost BMW a “mid-three-digit” million-euro amount per year, Peter said. BMW would try to offset the losses by raising prices on cars imported to the U.K. and any Oxford, England-made Mini vehicles sold on the continent. Read more: BMW Warns Hard Brexit Poses Major Risk to Earnings Momentum The pound climbed a third day to its highest level in over two years as optimism the U.K. and EU may reach a trade deal coincided with a weakening dollar. Sterling rose as much as 0.7% to $1.3549, surpassing a high recorded on Dec. 4 to reach its strongest level since May 2018. Bloomberg’s gauge of the greenback fell a third day, the longest run in about two weeks, as risk sentiment improved. EU governments approved a legal framework for how to grant fishermen authorization to continue working in U.K. and EU waters if there’s no trade agreement in place on Jan. 1, according to an EU statement. European Parliament will vote on the measure this week in an effort to have it adopted by the end of the year. EU ambassadors endorsed proposals to prepare the transport sector if the bloc and the U.K. fail to strike a trade deal, according to an EU statement on Wednesday. Germany, which holds the six-month rotating presidency of the EU, will begin talks with the European Parliament to adopt the legislative acts before the end of the year. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen was more upbeat on the state of the talks away from the question of fisheries, saying the two sides had found “a way forward on most issues.” She outlined what had been agreed on the other major sticking point, that of the playing field for fair competition, which for months has looked like it could scupper a deal. “On state aid we have made progress on common principles, guarantees of domestic enforcement and the possibility to autonomously remedy the situation where needed,” she said. “On standards we have agreed a strong mechanism of non-regression -- that’s a big step forward -- and this is to ensure our common high labor, social and environmental standards will not be undercut,” she said. “Of course difficulties remain on how to really future-proof fair competition.” And she said issues around how to enforce the overall deal were now “largely being resolved.” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told the European Parliament that an intrinsic aspect of the negotiations may not be agreed on. That would almost certainly mean no overall trade deal. “On fisheries the discussion is still very difficult,” she said. “In all honesty it sometimes feels that we will not be able to resolve this question.” She said fishing rights in U.K. waters and the level playing field for competition were the last big remaining issues, and there had been progress on the latter. “There is a path to an agreement now,” she said. “The path may be very narrow, but it is there and it is our responsibility to continue trying.”