When driving from Pittsburgh to its deep eastern suburbs, you know you’ve arrived in Westmoreland County when you see the farms with the massive Trump campaign displays, some as elaborate as Christmas Nativity yard scenes. Indeed, there is an entire Trump House. The county is reliably Republican and overwhelmingly white — roughly 95% white compared to 2.4% Black and 2.8% “Other.” When Trump alarmed voters that Democrats and socialists were coming to  doom the suburbs, this county was the kind of place he envisioned saving. He won it in November with 63.46% of the vote, which was 2 percentage points less than he won it with in 2016. But Westmoreland County’s roots are actually steeped in both Democratic Party politics and socialism. And while it never matched the Black demographics of nearby Pittsburgh and other Rust Belt metropolises, it was once a place where some Black businesses thrived and where Black families could find sanctuary from the city. With that in mind, today, a new set of signs is in view around the county that signals a return to those more cosmopolitan origins. In October, 10 billboards were installed along the major highways of Westmoreland County created by local artists around the common theme of diversity. One billboard, from artist Tina Williams Brewer, is a patch of quilts fit between the messages “Arc of Justice” and “Yoke of LOVE”— the pastiche seeming to mirror the panoply of townships, boroughs, farms and small cities scattered across the county. In artist Fran Flaherty’s billboard, four hands of different skin hues spell out “love” in sign language across a black backdrop. Shane Pilster’s billboard is a neon graffiti burner spelling out “Community,” with emphasis on the “unity” part. The project is sponsored by the Westmoreland Diversity Coalition and the Westmoreland Museum of American Art in the county seat of Greensburg. Both organizations have positioned themselves as anchor institutions for the challenging mission of making Westmoreland a more racially inclusive place. For its part, the museum has been exhibiting more work from Black, African, Native American and Latinx artists in recent years, such as the current “African American Art in the 20th Century” exhibit done in collaboration with the Smithsonian. It’s a new direction for the museum, under the tutelage of director Anne Kraybill, who arrived in Westmoreland County in 2018 from the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville, Arkansas. “What really attracted me to this role is just really unpacking: What does it even mean to be American?” said Kraybill. “As you think about complicating the narrative, not only within this region, but on a national scale, I looked at this as an opportunity to help build that platform in an area that doesn't have a huge amount of diversity.” The billboards were curated by Sheila Cuellar-Shaffer, a Westmoreland County resident who came to the U.S. from Palmira, Colombia. Westmoreland’s foreign-born population is even more paltry than its racial minority population — just 1.6% of county residents were not born in the U.S. As a painter, her work explores social justice themes and her “own reality as an immigrant exploring identity, diversity,” according to her artist statement on her website. The sentiment around immigration in Westmoreland is mostly fraught —her thick Colombian accent has been met with anger and hostility, even when she is overheard speaking her native language of Spanish with her own family members. “I’ve noticed that people do not want to welcome anything different here,” said Cuellar-Shaffer. “I don’t know if it’s that they are afraid, but it’s human nature, that we’re afraid of things that we don’t know. Perhaps a bad economy helps fuel that sense of, ‘We don’t know why you’re here.’” This would explain the overflow of Trump signs across the county, where the economy is tanking despite a booming U.S. stock market. With its industrial and manufacturing base having eroded over the last several decades — a trend across the Rust Belt — Westmoreland County residents have mostly stuck by the party that best fortresses them from having to share what’s left of jobs and resources with those who don’t fit their mold. “The union falloff; the rural divide; the narrow boundaries of belonging embraced by some within a generation that inherited a unique conjuncture of U.S. global power and labor bargaining power, and who live today in regions hammered by the loss of both,” wrote University of Pittsburgh history professor Lara Putnam for  Democracy Journal. “Donald Trump created none of these trends, yet he turned out to be a perfect politician to exploit them.” It’s not that the mission of diversity is to turn red states blue. Rather, its urgency lies in its ability to chip away at the intensifying political polarization and racial-economic segregation that has been perilous for both Black urban and white small towns. Westmoreland is an aging, population-losing county that in many parts has been left impoverished due to the flight of industries overseas and the surge toward automation. In that regard, it is a bellwether for what direction, politically and economically, the U.S. will be moving in the years to come. Cuellar-Shaffer is a board director for the Westmoreland Diversity Coalition, which, originally known as the Central Westmoreland Unity Coalition, was born in response to a KKK rally held at the county courthouse in 1997. Carlotta Paige, a Black county native whose father was a police officer and also worked in some of the county’s factories, helped start the multiracial coalition, which built a following by leading annual unity rallies. The coalition chose “make our differences our strengths” as the theme for the billboards, building from the idea that diversifying is perhaps the one thing that can save the county from approaching utter demise, in the way of so many other towns across Appalachia. “One of the reasons that I do what I do is because I left Westmoreland County for 23 years and when I came back nothing had changed,” said Paige. “It’s just not that diverse here and that’s got to change. There are some attitudes here that need to be changed.” One of the billboards, created by Pittsburgh-based artist Alisha Wormsley, features an assembly of 1950s-era TV consoles each with a different slice of Black life captured in sepia tones on the screens. The images are of real Black people who lived in Westmoreland County in the 20th century: portraits of Black families, pilots, musicians and businessmen — one image of a Black woman holding a baby while balancing a basket on her head is a woman who had been born into slavery. Wormsley is perhaps best known today for her series of artistic work built around the declaration, “There Are Black People in the Future”— a statement that has become somewhat of a national anthem for Black artists. It’s fitting that Wormsley was chosen for the Westmoreland project given that a billboard she created in 2018, a public art installation in Pittsburgh, touched off a neighborhood maelstrom over whether Black people were even welcome in her own city. Neighbors of the building where her billboard was mantled complained about the “Black People in the Future” statement and it was eventually taken down. While many people protested against what looked like art censorship from gentrifiers, Wormsley leveraged the moment by developing a league of Black artists across the region who have been commissioned to create even more public works building upon the “There Are Black People in the Future” rubric. Now the statement is prominently displayed above one of the whitest counties in the state, imposing “a spell,” as Wormsley calls it, on a place where one could legitimately question whether there are Black people in its future. “I mean, we exist everywhere, and so part of the work is about this ritual, about offering this assurance,” said Wormsley. “That's what all of these people in this little rural county, that were descendants of Africans, who were brought here in the Atlantic slave trade — their descendants — they created these spaces for themselves. They created this legacy. They made sure that we existed.” It is just as important to Wormsley for people to understand that there are also Black people in Westmoreland County’s present, as well as its past. Black neighborhoods are sprinkled across the small cities of New Kensington, Jeannette, Monessen and Greensburg. While no Harlem, there’s historically been a network of Black businesses and churches in the area — at least enough of them that a group was able to pool resources together in the 1940s to open their own amusement park, Fairview Park, which had a roller coaster, a petting zoo and even offered hot-air balloon rides. It was not only a place for Black families in Westmoreland, but also for Black families in Pittsburgh and other cities across the region to escape to since they couldn’t attend white-run amusement parks. There are likely more stories like that about Black Westmoreland, but Wormsley said she had trouble finding documents and sources for these stories. According to Paige, many African Americans like her father were mostly “compliant and non-controversial” as a survival method — much of the protests and riots that defined the 1960s missed Westmoreland County. “They couldn’t have survived otherwise,” said Paige. “Growing up, I did not understand what my father and others had to endure to survive. It was a very small population and they didn’t have any other support other than themselves. My father was a good man, but in order to protect us, and to keep his job, and be respected by the white community he felt he had to be quiet and non-confrontational.” What you will find in the county’s archives is lots of information on its glorious past, when Westmoreland was king of the coal industry at a time when coal was king. Pittsburgh’s steel may have built the modern world, but it used Westmoreland’s coal to do it. Meanwhile, its own steel plants and glass factories helped position Westmoreland as a global hub for those industries in the mid-20th century as well. The organized labor unions created to sustain workers in those fields — and their families — became the cornerstone of the Democratic Party locally and nationally. And for most of the 20th century, Westmoreland was a solidly Democratic enclave due to the sturdy union networks embedded deep throughout the county. While it’s popularly held that the unions helped laborers obtain middle-class lifestyles, this was not true for coal workers in southwest Pennsylvania in the beginning of the 20th century, when recessions and wage strikes were common. The Great Depression knocked hundreds of thousands of coal workers out of work, and the region was only able to rebound with economic assistance from the federal government in the form of the New Deal. One way that the Division of Homestead Subsistence intervened was by providing land, houses and new jobs for displaced coal workers — basically by creating new cities for them. For Westmoreland County, that meant the creation of Norvelt, a 1,326-acre patch town built in 1934 with roughly 250 single-family housing units, each complete with its own chicken coop, running water and electricity — all amenities that the former coal workers were unaccustomed to. The new city also had a farm, dairy barn and clothing factory where Norvelt residents were expected to work. It was a completely federally funded progressive enterprise based on wealth redistribution policies to help the poor. In other words, it was socialism. And yet racial exclusion was a feature of even this liberal project. Of the families who moved in, only one was African American. In their book Hope in Hard Times, authors Timothy Kelly and Margaret Power — both native Westmoreland residents — write that, “In Norvelt, one of the perceived dangers was racial integration.” Perhaps not coincidentally, the Ku Klux Klan, thought to be a Southern racial terrorist group, had already taken root in the area. The Norvelt of today hardly resembles its genesis. At first staunchly devoted to the Democratic Party (“Norvelt” combines the last syllables of the name Eleanor Roosevelt, wife of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the New Deal president who made this all possible), it is today almost an entirely Republican jurisdiction. “To explain the generational shifts in party affiliation, I can point to the economic transformation of the county, the closing of industry and the mines, the demise of the unions and their replacement with new affective communities such as the megachurches, to partially explain this political transformation,” wrote Power about the county she grew up in. “But when it comes right down to it, I believe the most significant factors are White supremacy and conservative social values, which many in the area equate with being American and what they will fight to preserve or reinstate.” To that end, the Westmoreland billboard project seeks to promote messages of diversity and inclusivity not just around race but also gender, disability and age. In Alejandro Fiez’s billboard, “A cat reminded me You are Me,” an older woman puts her weight on her end of a seesaw to lift a younger girl on the other end so she can reach a cat stuck in a tree. Westmoreland County is perhaps finally coming to terms with that reality. Besides it being a white county, it’s also a gray one, with 23.5% of its population over the age of 65, compared with 18.7% for the state, and 16.5% for the U.S. Its median age of 47 is 20% higher than that of neighboring Allegheny County and also Pennsylvania, which share a median age of 40. It is also bleeding off population: Census estimates from earlier this year found that the county has lost roughly 14,500 people since 2010, with each of its largest municipalities losing significant numbers as well. “We need to make people feel comfortable to come here because otherwise it’s going to affect the economic development of the county,” said Paige. “There are going to be jobs they’re going to need to fill if we can ever get over this pandemic, and for the economy to grow again you’re going to need more workers. We need to bring more minorities here to fill those jobs, but they don’t feel welcome, so they don’t come really.” The Westmoreland Diversity Coalition commissioned a survey study in 2015 that unearthed some of the thoughts and attitudes behind the county’s diversity problem. On the question of whether Westmoreland is welcoming to racial minorities, 16.6% of white respondents agreed compared with only 2.7% of non-white; meanwhile, 16% of minorities strongly disagreed compared with just 4.1% of white respondents. Since then, county leadership has begun to acknowledge these disparities and a need for new policy. Its Reimagining Our Westmoreland comprehensive plan was enacted in 2018, setting a goal of promoting “the entrepreneurial spirit of diverse populations by creating a welcoming place for them,” and it recently unveiled the “Welcome Everyone Westmoreland” initiative aimed at convincing county residents that diversity is in their best interest. The billboard project is laying the groundwork for that. The signs have been up since October, but last month they were shuffled around to new locations throughout the city to ensure more visibility. Source materials and 3-D renderings of the billboards were on display at the Westmoreland Museum of American Art through November. For next year, museum director Anne Kraybill has scheduled an even heavier load of race-focused artwork and programming. “I saw an opportunity to bring something to the community that maybe they hadn't had before, and yes, it's majority white, and yes, it's majority aging, but unless we create a space to do this work, it's just going to continue on that trajectory,” said Kraybill. “[The county] has been stereotyped under a partisan lens, but there are really committed people here who are trying to do work beyond what the election means — that are trying to make this place a really great place to live, where you can feel safe and welcome.” 