Holiday lighting in Amsterdam may face new style and color restrictions in 2021. If your holiday decorations involve inflatable Minions or light shows that play Metallica songs, steer clear of Amsterdam: This year, the Dutch capital seems to have started a war on garish Christmas displays. Following the launch of a public consultation in November, Amsterdammers may face stringent limits on their decorative options for Christmas 2021. According to proposed new regulations (to be confirmed in the spring) lighting displays on buildings in the city must consist of at least 70% “warm white” bulbs, and must use LED lights only. Allowed to sparkle only from 6 a.m. to midnight and from October to February, these displays will need to be registered online with the municipality if they cover more than a square meter (10.8 square feet) or more than 10% of a building’s façade. Outdoor Christmas trees and displays of holiday figures such as Santa Claus and his reindeer would also need to be registered with the city. In Amsterdam’s UNESCO-protected city center, the rules will be yet more stringent. There, at least 90% of bulbs must be warm white, and must cover no more than 30% of any façade. Furthermore, the lights must not conceal any architectural ornament and must reflect the shape of the building. (Perhaps wisely, the city has not as yet discussed what, if any penalties there might be for breaking the rules.) The city’s crackdown on excessive Xmas cheer was spurred by a recent lighting-display arms race raging among residents and building owners. “Technical possibilities for festive lighting have increased over the past ten years and will continue to grow,” says a city guide published to clarify what appropriate decorative schemes might look like. “The size of lighting elements and structures is increasing, because advancing technology makes this possible, and more complex elements are available at increasingly lower costs.” Lights are also becoming more energy-efficient, driving down expenses and creating an epidemic of Christmas one-upmanship. Store light displays across the storybook city have swelled steroidally in recent years; left unchecked, Amsterdam in December might end up looking like a colder, drizzlier version of the Las Vegas Strip. That this Yuletide clampdown is being proposed by the Netherlands, given its anything-goes reputation, might come as a surprise. While Amsterdam is famously permissive about certain kinds of public behavior, the Dutch nonetheless have a well-documented history of liking things tidy. In recent years, Amsterdam has also passed rules against riding beer bikes and, this year, letting off anything but small fireworks. In a city whose center is being targeted to remove any  hint of sleaze, regulating Christmas displays may be a logical next step. In its quest for taste and consistency, the city offers several examples of what it does and doesn’t want in the city center, where rules will be strictest. The display below, the guide says, fails the new regulations on three counts. First, the majority of the display is not in warm white. It also covers more than 30% of the facade and works against the lines of the façade. This next house is better, but still has some flaws. The strips of lights are, according to the city’s guide, close enough to warm white (which really seems to mean pale yellow) to pass muster, and they are hung in a way that complements the façade and do not cover more than 30% of it. The bright-white snowflakes, however, are a problem: They seem to appear at random in ways that do not enhance the building’s lines; one also partly masks a decorative balcony. Here’s a display that does fit the guidelines, showing that it’s possible to follow the rules and still create something eye-catching. This store façade, for example, piles on the decorations but respects the building’s lines and uses a fairly conservative amount of lighting. Meanwhile, displays covering whole streets are allowed to be quite extravagant, as long as white lights predominate and the overall color palette is limited to five colors. Official restrictions on holiday decorations aren’t entirely unheard of in the U.S. and Europe, especially in recent years, as more homeowners take advantage of technology to create increasingly spectacular light-and-sound displays. Some have been shut down after neighbors complained about excessive traffic from sightseers; others faced objections on taste and irreverence grounds, as with this zombie nativity scene in suburban Ohio. A few famously elaborate neighborhood holiday displays have been either scaled-down or are limiting visitors this year for Covid-related reasons. But Amsterdam’s new code of aesthetic uniformity is a little different. For lovers of Christmas sparkle, the new rules might look like the ultimate expression of municipal Grinchery, a plan so curmudgeonly it sounds like something hatched by a villain in a Christmas movie. That’s certainly been a common reaction from Dutch people on social media, with some commenters calling the city “Stalingrad on the Amstel.” Others have pointed out that the plans could spell trouble for the Amsterdam’s red-light district. The city has nonetheless presented its plans as a relaxation, not a tightening of current rules. Currently, displays from businesses and along or over streets already require permits that need to be assessed by the city. The new plans replace these permits with a simpler online registration, with the new rules publicized so that actual assessment of displays by the city isn’t necessary. This seems sensible, but overlooks the fact that private homes will be covered by the regulations for the first time. Maybe it’s no surprise that a historic, tourism-dependent city already known for its gingerbread-y housing stock would be so determined to put its best winter boot forward for locals and visitors. Forcing residents to monitor the color ratios in their holiday lights, however, risks being seen as an unseasonable act of bureaucratic overreach. It’s no wonder then that the city’s governing aldermen already stand accused of resembling that least-popular of Christmas characters: Scrooge.