Louis Camilleri abruptly retired from his roles as Chief Executive Officer of Ferrari NV and chairman of Philip Morris International Inc. for personal reasons. His sudden retirement Thursday left Ferrari without a clear successor. Executive Chairman John Elkann will act as interim CEO for now, the luxury sports carmaker said. Camilleri, 65, will also give up his board seat. “As a longstanding member of the Ferrari board, Louis showed an unswerving sense of responsibility ensuring continuity for our organization, whilst guiding Ferrari into the future with an ambitious and far-sighted strategic plan,” Elkann said in a letter to workers. Representatives for Ferrari and Philip Morris said Camilleri was recovering from Covid-19. A Ferrari spokesman said Camilleri’s illness was not the “main reason” for his retirement, but didn’t elaborate. His exit triggered an orderly succession plan that’s been in place for some time, Philip Morris said. The tobacco company’s CEO Andre Calantzopoulos will become executive chairman right before the annual shareholders meeting in May, it said. Lucio Noto, the company’s independent presiding director, will serve as interim chair in the meantime. Chief Operating Officer Jacek Olczak will succeed Calantzopoulos as CEO when he takes the chairman spot. “I am stepping down with the firm belief that the company is in great hands to accomplish its smoke-free vision,” Camilleri said in the Philip Morris statement announcing his immediate retirement. Ferrari’s U.S.-listed shares fell as much as 3.1% after the market’s close on the news. Philip Morris shares were mostly unchanged. Camilleri, who served in top roles at Kraft Foods, took the reins of Philip Morris in 2002, when the Marlboro maker owned Kraft. He remained at Philip Morris International after its separation from Altria Group Inc., which focuses on the U.S. He stepped down as CEO in 2013 while keeping his board seat, helping the company focus on bigger-picture issues such as boosting China sales and developing new products. The company now sells the IQOS electronic cigarette in some countries. The tobacco giant has long been a sponsor of Ferrari’s Formula One racing teams, but Camilleri had no direct automotive experience, which made him a somewhat controversial pick to run one of the world’s preeminent car brands. Camilleri was a Ferrari board member when he took over as CEO in July 2018 for Sergio Marchionne, who fell ill following complications from surgery and died within days of being replaced. Marchionne orchestrated Ferrario’s 2016 spin-off from Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV, where he also served as CEO. In two-and-a-half years as CEO, Camilleri oversaw the transformation of Ferrari into a fully fledged luxury brand. Last year, it joined forces with another iconic Italian name, Giorgio Armani SpA, to help push the supercar maker’s handbag and clothing lines into the premium-price space. Camilleri also revamped Ferrari’s lineup so it could keep boosting prices. The company introduced five new models in 2019, which helped increase annual sales to more than 10,000 units for the first time. One looming question for his successor is how Ferrari will cope with more stringent emissions regulations in the European Union and other markets. While the company has said that 60% of its models will have a hybrid powertrain by 2022, Camilleri has expressed doubts the brand would go fully electric. He recently criticized European environmental regulations that aim to cut transport emissions by penalizing the sale of vehicles with particularly inefficient engines, saying they fail to take into account how infrequently some are driven. “If you take a V-12 Ferrari that only runs 3,000 kilometers a year, probably it has less emissions than a very small car that runs every day,” he said during an investor call last month. Exor NV, the investment company for the Agnelli family, controls Ferrari with 36% of its voting rights and a direct 23% stake. The supercarmaker was listed in New York in 2015. It has a market valuation of over $41 billion, well above the $26 billion valuation of its former parent company Fiat Chrysler. Elkann, the scion of the Agnelli family, is set to become chairman of Stellantis, the company which will start its operations next year following the combination of Fiat Chrysler with Peugeot. Born in Egypt, Camilleri attended boarding school in England and the University of Lausanne in Switzerland. — With assistance by Tiffany Kary, and Tommaso Ebhardt