The U.K. became the first western country to approve a Covid-19 vaccine, clearing Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s shot. In Germany, the daily death toll from the virus rose to the highest since mid-April. Hong Kong plans to raise the fine for people who break social distancing rules fivefold to HK$10,000 ($1,290), a local newspaper reported. The city plans to offer free coronavirus vaccinations for all its residents, a top health official was cited as saying. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control’s new guidance will cut quarantine time for individuals exposed to the coronavirus by as much as half, people familiar with the matter said. Singapore’s use of Gilead Sciences Inc.’s remdesivir to treat some Covid patients won’t change, even after a World Health Organization report advised against the practice. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID Last month's Covid-19 fatalities in U.S. were highest since May Source: Johns Hopkins University, Bloomberg  The U.K. cleared Pfizer and BioNTech’s shot ahead of decisions in the U.S. and European Union. The emergency authorization opens the way for the deployment of a vaccine that’s expected to play a significant role in the global effort to halt the coronavirus. Pfizer and its German partner said in November that the shot, relying on novel technology called messenger RNA, was 95% effective in a final analysis of clinical-trial data. The vaccine will be available in Britain from next week, according to a statement from the U.K. government. Germany recorded 24,766 new coronavirus cases in the 24 hours through Wednesday morning, and daily fatalities jumped to a seven-month high of 483. The rise in infections -- the biggest in six days -- took the total to 1,094,678, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The number of fatalities was the most since April 16’s record of 510, and Germany’s death toll now stands at more than 17,000. The government is trying to stem the stubborn spread of infections through a partial lockdown in place since the start of last month, with restaurants, bars, gyms and cultural venues shut and social contact restricted. Turkey has plans for “widespread” Covid-19 vaccination and will prioritize medical personnel, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said. The country will receive up to 20 million doses this month, followed by another 20 million doses in January and 10 million in February. Hong Kong’s de facto cabinet has agreed to raise the fine for breaking social distancing rules to HK$10,000 from HK$2,000, the South China Morning Post reported, citing unidenfitied people. The increase is subject to input from the Department of Justice, according to the newspaper. The city faces 103 new coronavirus cases Wednesday, up from 82 the day before, the SCMP said. Hong Kong has ratcheted up curbs on clubs, bars and restaurants in the past week, and has also closed schools. A CNN report citing internal Chinese government documents said Hubei Province had a 20-fold spike in what was identified as influenza cases in one week in early December 2019, around the same time the first symptomatic Covid-19 patients was found. Wuhan, the city in Hubei where the world’s first known Covid-19 outbreak occurred, ranked third in the province in how severe its flu outbreak was, with 2,032 new cases in the week starting Dec 2, 2019. The neighboring cities of Yichang and Xianning had 6,135 and 2,148 cases respectively, CNN cited the government documents as saying. The documents show that testing carried out on the influenza patients at the time returned a high number of unknown results, CNN reported. But health experts said it’s hard to know how many of them might have actually had Covid-19, according to CNN. One document CNN reviewed suggests China had detected around 200 Covid-19 cases in 2019. That’s higher than the “44 cases of pneumonia of unknown etiology” China reported to the World Health Organization for the period up to Jan. 3, 2020. The first shipments of Pfizer’s coronavirus vaccine will be delivered on Dec. 15, CNN reported, citing an Operation Warp Speed document. Moderna’s vaccine will arrive a week later, CNN said, adding that the distribution dates are contingent on the vaccines getting FDA clearance for emergency use. Southeast Asia’s most populous country shortened its year-end holiday by three days to stem the virus spread and avoid a repeat of a long weekend in October that led to a spike in cases. The Indonesian government setting Dec. 24-25 as well as Dec. 31-Jan. 1 as public holidays, compared with an 11-day long stretch previously. It is contending with Southeast Asia’s biggest outbreak, with more than half a million cases confirmed so far. Vietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc ordered the aviation authority to halt international commercial flights after the nation reported its first local coronavirus cases in almost three months. Ho Chi Minh City officials have isolated 513 people after three people tested positive for the virus. Phuc directed the Ho Chi Minh City government to quickly trace and isolate everyone who came in contact with those who tested positive this week. “Rescue” flights bringing Vietnamese home from abroad should continue, Phuc said. The CDC told President Donald Trump’s coronavirus task force that the recommended time in quarantine would be seven days for those who test negative after exposure to Covid-19, according to people with knowledge of the matter. For those who don’t take a test, the recommended quarantine is 10 days, the people said. At present, CDC guidelines for people who have been exposed is to “stay home for 14 days after your last contact with a person who has Covid-19.” Los Angeles County on Tuesday reported a record number of new Covid cases -- 7,593. The ratio of tests that come back positive almost doubled from a week ago, to 12%. Hospitalizations also rose past a previous peak in early July. Tuesday “is the worst day thus far of the Covid-19 pandemic in Los Angeles County,” said said Barbara Ferrer, the county’s director of public health, in a statement. “However, it will likely not remain the worst day of the pandemic in Los Angeles County.” Visitors to next year’s Summer Olympics in Tokyo won’t need to be vaccinated against Covid-19 before arriving, Nikkei reported. Travelers who submit proof of a negative test and use an enhanced version of Cocoa, a virus tracking app from the Japanese government, also won’t be subject to a two-week quarantine, according to the report. Texas posted a record 15,182 new Covid-19 diagnoses on Tuesday, breaking the old record set less than a week ago by more than 500 cases. The increase pushed the second-largest U.S. state’s cumulative total to 1.18 million, according to state health department figures. Meanwhile, virus hospitalizations exceeded 9,000 for the first time since July. Health-care workers and residents at long-term care centers should be first in line for Covid-19 vaccines, key U.S. government advisers urged Tuesday, citing the high risk for infection within the two groups and the positive effects on hospital care. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, or ACIP, includes medical and public health experts that advise the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on vaccine use. Their recommendation, approved by a 13-to-1 vote, comes as regulators are set to rule within weeks on emergency use of a Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE vaccine, followed quickly by a decision on a Moderna Inc. shot. In San Francisco, Mayor London Breed said that more-stringent measures may be coming as soon as this week. The city, already in California’s purple tier requiring widespread restrictions, is considering further capacity limits on businesses and outdoor gatherings, as well as requiring people to self-quarantine if they travel. “Our dangerous winter has arrived,” Breed said Tuesday in a press briefing. “What we’re seeing now is a spike unlike anything we’ve seen since the beginning of this pandemic. We are in trouble.” A Covid-19 testing site in Los Angeles on Nov. 30. Governor Newsom warned that hospitalizations may double or triple by Christmas. Photographer: Mario Tama/Getty Images California has a record 9,049 patients hospitalized with the coronavirus, for the first time exceeding levels hit during a July surge in cases, according to state health department data. The most-populous state reported 12,221 new infections Tuesday, while its 14-day average rate of positive tests climbed to 6.5%, the highest since August. Hospitalizations have nearly doubled since mid-November and have yet to reflect a new spike of infections, which trail hospital stays by two to three weeks. Governor Gavin Newsom warned on Monday that hospitalizations may double or triple by Christmas and intensive-care capacity will exceed demand, potentially leading to new stay-at-home orders if trends don’t change. The overwhelming majority of Americans could be vaccinated against Covid-19 by the second quarter of next year, leading to herd immunity by the fall, Anthony Fauci, the U.S. government’s top infectious disease doctor, said Tuesday. In an online news conference with Colorado governor Jared Polis, Fauci said the ordinary man and woman on the street, without co-existing conditions or elevated risks, will start getting access to the vaccines now being considered by U.S regulators in April. If Americans embrace the immunization, most may have gotten the shot before August comes to a close, he said. “That means you would have herd immunity that would allow you to safely get people back to school in the fall, to safely get people back to the kinds of work that would otherwise be difficult as you get to the middle and the end of the summer,” Fauci said. The director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases also said he was surprised by the high efficacy of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. New Jersey reported 90 deaths, by far the most in more than six months. The state now has 15,254 lab-confirmed virus fatalities and 1,829 with an untested but probable link. New Jersey reported 4,661 new cases, marking the third time in 11 days that the figure exceeded 4,500. More than half the 601 patients in intensive-care units were breathing with the aid of ventilators. Starting on Dec. 7, Governor Phil Murphy will limit outdoor gatherings to 25 people, from 150, and suspend most indoor sports. New Jersey has limits on indoor dining, retail and other activities. Murphy has said a broad statewide shutdown, along the lines of what he ordered in March and then slowly relaxed, remains a remote possibility. A Roche Holding AG test that detects the presence and level of coronavirus antibodies was cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for emergency use. Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2. Photographer: Peter Kneffel/picture alliance via /Getty Images The test, known as the Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 S, identifies antibodies tied to the virus’s distinctive spike protein, a target for several of the leading vaccines in development. The test could be used to evaluate how well the shots work, including over time, Roche said in a statement announcing the approval. Like other antibody tests, the assay could also be used to identify potential plasma donors. The use of so-called convalescent plasma to treat people hospitalized with Covid-19 was granted emergency authorization by the FDA earlier this year. UnitedHealth Group Inc. expects the pandemic to carve $2 billion out of its profits next year, with Covid-19 testing and treatment costs remaining steady even as more Americans return to their doctors’ offices for routine care. Executives said costs for virus testing and treatment won’t be offset by widespread deferrals in care in 2021, as they were in 2020 when U.S. medical providers shut down most non-urgent in-person care for weeks during the spring. Coronavirus-related hospitalizations in New York jumped by 242 in one day, the most since early April. There were 3,774 hospitalizations on Monday, and 66 virus-related fatalities, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Tuesday during a virus briefing conference call. Hospital capacity is a top priority for the state, which issued orders on Monday calling on health systems to begin increasing the number of beds available, he said. Still, the rate of growth is “nowhere close to what it was back in March,” said Gareth Rhodes, a member of Cuomo’s Covid-19 task force. At the end of March into April, the number of new hospitalizations went from about 3,500 daily to more than 13,000 in about a week, he said. Statewide 146,675 tests were reported on Monday, of which 4.96%, or 7,285, were positive, including hot spot areas, according to state data. New York City is urging older adults and those with underlying health conditions to stay home and not have guests in order to moderate case growth and preserve hospital capacity. An ambulance at a Covid-19 testing site in New York, U.S., Nov. 25. There were 3,774 hospitalizations on Monday. Photographer: Victor J. Blue/Bloomberg City hospitalizations have doubled in recent weeks and are now 1,100, the highest since June. The seven-day average of daily reported cases has climbed to 1,685, the highest since May. A month ago, the daily case average was 621. The percentage of people testing positive continues to climb, to a seven-day average of 4.14%. “We are seeing a tragically familiar pattern,” as cases increase and hospitalizations follow, Health Commissioner Dave Chokshi said at a virus press briefing on Tuesday. New Yorkers who are older and have health conditions should wear face coverings at all times, indoors and outdoors, health officials urged. — With assistance by Philip Lagerkranser, Anna Edney, Angelica LaVito, John Tozzi, and Joe Carroll