Asian equities climbed after a fresh record for their U.S. counterparts, as hopes for a stimulus deal tempered concern about a surge in coronavirus cases. The dollar edged lower. Shares climbed across the region with South Korean stocks outperforming. S&P 500 futures ticked higher after the benchmark closed at an all-time high. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin presented a new $916 billion Covid-19 relief proposal to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who hailed progress in the negotiations though deemed parts of the plan as “unacceptable.” The Nasdaq 100 advanced for a 10th straight day, the longest rally in about a year. Benchmark Treasury yields held at about 0.93%. Elsewhere, the pound pared declines after the U.K. dropped controversial parts of an internal bill that would have given it the power to unilaterally override the Brexit divorce treaty. Oil fluctuated. Pfizer Inc. jumped as U.S. regulators gave early indications they may grant emergency-use authorization to its vaccine. With time running short the year-end break approaches, just as U.S. Covid-19 cases surpass 15 million, investors remain hopeful a stimulus deal can be struck. Democrats have opposed Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s insistence on giving employers a shield from lawmakers, while he has been among Republicans blasting Democratic demands for assistance to state and local authorities as a bailout. Meantime, machinery orders in Japan jumped at the fastest pace in more than a decade, adding to signs that the global economy is contining to recover from the pandemic. Elsewhere, Chinese consumer prices declined for the first time since 2009. The opportunities are “in equities and credit, so we are overweight, we are risk on,” Richard Lacaille, global chief investment officer at State Street Global Advisors, said on Bloomberg TV. “We know that we will be tested again next year in terms of Covid and elsewhere.” Here are some key events coming up: U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says he’s presented a $916 billion aid proposal which has been reviewed by the president and top republicans. Source: Bloomberg Here are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Claire Ballentine, Rita Nazareth, Cormac Mullen, and Joanna Ossinger