We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Bahrain followed the United Arab Emirates in approving Sinopharm Group Co.’s coronavirus vaccine. Germany reported a second day of improvement after Friday’s record number of new cases and deaths. South Korea saw a record number of coronavirus cases for a second consecutive day. Japan may halt its travel subsidy program in the cities of Tokyo and Nagoya amid rising infections, according to local media. Italy moved ahead of the U.K. as the European country with the most virus-related deaths, while the worldwide toll rose to more than 1.6 million. U.S. government-approved shots from Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE are due to arrive at the first administration sites on Monday. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID Bahrain approved the registration of the Sinopharm Group vaccine against the coronavirus, about a week after the United Arab Emirates registered it. “Results from Phase III clinical trials showed an 86% efficacy rate, a 99% seroconversion rate of neutralizing antibody and 100% effectiveness in preventing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19,” the National Health Regulatory Authority said in a statement Sunday. Germany’s new coronavirus infections and deaths retreated further from Friday’s records, as officials weigh imposing a hard lockdown to check the spread of the disease. There were 21,792 new cases in the 24 hours through Sunday morning, and the number of fatalities rose by 333, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. On Friday, infections jumped by 32,734 and deaths increased by 604, both records. Chancellor Angela Merkel and the leaders of Germany’s 16 states are expected to agree on tighter restrictions at a meeting Sunday, including closing non-essential stores and prolonging the school vacation. While crude isn’t back to normal yet, positive signals are proliferating. In a world where travel is expected to recover sharply next year, oil has become a hot coronavirus vaccine trade. Demand in Europe is bouncing back as a second wave of lockdowns eases, while Asia continues to pull in huge volumes of crude. Approval rating dropped 17 points from the previous survey because of dissatisfaction with the way the government has handled the coronavirus pandemic, according to a Mainichi Shimbun opinion poll. Fish product imports from Russian manufacturer Vostok-ryba Co. have been suspended for one week after outer packaging of frozen salmon tested positive to coronavirus, the Global Times reported. Japan may stop the campaign in Tokyo and Nagoya because of rising coronavirus cases, local media reported Sunday. The government will hold talks with governors of regions where infections are rising, Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura told NHK. The program to the two cities may be suspended until Dec. 25, FNN reported, without saying where it got the information. Brazil has total infections of 6,880,127, according to Health Ministry data released Saturday. Death toll rose 686 in the past 24 hours to 181,123. Earlier, the nation’s health ministry on Friday delivered a national immunization plan to the Supreme Court and the Federal Attorney’s Office, according to a note on the ministry’s website Saturday. The plan will be released to Brazilians on Thursday, The country has the world’s third-highest number of Covid-19 cases, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. South Korea reported 1,030 confirmed cases on Sunday, breaking the previous day’s record of 950 infections. More than 70% of the 1,002 local infections reported Sunday were in the greater Seoul area, according to the Korean Disease Control and Prevention Agency. Congress needs to act now on a COVID relief package. The American people can’t wait. pic.twitter.com/NCZADDAKDd Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti issued a stark statistic for the pandemic on Saturday: “This week, every 20 minutes someone in L.A. County is dying from Covid-19.” The number of cases in Los Angeles County reached 512,872 by Saturday, with deaths totaling 8,269. Garcetti warned a week ago that fatalities could exceed 11,000 by the end of the year. The county of 10 million, one of the first in the U.S. to shut down non-essential businesses in March along with other curbs, said enforcement remains the key obstacle to containing the spread. Charley Pride, whose rich baritone helped sell millions of records and made him the first Black member of the Country Music Hall of Fame, has died from complications from Covid-19, Jeremy Westby of public relations firm 2911 Media told the Associated Press. Peru has temporarily suspended trials of Sinopharm Group Ltd.’s Covid-19 vaccine after an unspecified “adverse event” was reported during a clinical trial. Phase 3 trials started in September. Peru has seen more than 980,000 cases and 36,544 deaths from coronavirus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The race to distribute the one product that billions of people around the world will want will create investment opportunities as traders look at the companies involved in the rollout. Each vaccine that has won or is near approval offers a different logistical challenge, from ultra-cold storage to getting products to places across the developing world A panel of advisers to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention voted to recommend that people age 16 and older receive Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s Covid-19 vaccine, clearing one of the last hurdles for U.S. vaccinations. CDC Director Robert Redfield must give a final sign-off on the panel’s recommendations at a meeting on Saturday. France’s rolling seven-day average of new cases increased 1.2% to almost 12,000, marking a further rise from a recent low of 10,348 on Dec. 4. While another 194 people died of causes related to Covid-19, the rolling average fell to 397 in Saturday’s data, the lowest in more than a month. California reported a record 35,729 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, its second straight day with more than 35,000. Deaths increased by 225 to 20,847. Hospitalizations climbed 3.5% in 24 hours to a record 13,410 patients. New York recorded 11,129 new cases and 95 additional deaths statewide linked to Covid-19, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Twitter. It’s the fifth consecutive day of increasing cases, according to state data, bringing daily infections closer to the record of 11,571 reported on April 14. The latest positive-test rate is slightly less than 4.6%, Cuomo said. Nebraska relaxed some coronavirus-related restrictions on Saturday, increasing the capacity limit for indoor gatherings to 50% from 25% and allowing some elective surgeries to resume. While groups in bars and restaurants will still be limited to eight patrons, they’ll no longer be required to stay six feet (1.83 meters) apart. Distancing requirements for gyms, health clubs and spas were lifted. Kentucky is scheduled to reopen indoor dining at bars and restaurants at 50% capacity on Monday. Gyms, event spaces such as theaters and professional services can also reopen at half-capacity, though masks must be worn while exercising, according to Governor Andy Beshear. While Beshear reported a state record of more than 4,300 new cases on Thursday, he said the positive-test rate declined for the seventh straight day. Italy’s deaths blamed on Covid-19 rose by 649 to 64,036 and now exceed U.K. fatalities, which increased to 64,026 in Saturday data from both countries. Italy reported 19,903 new cases, an increase of more than 1,000 compared to Friday. — With assistance by Tim Smith, Matthew Burgess, Iain Rogers, Farah Elbahrawy, Stepan Kravchenko, Natalie Lung, Ditas B Lopez, Claudia Maedler, Rafaela Lindeberg, Angelica LaVito, Ezra Fieser, Ayai Tomisawa, and Reema Al Othman