More than 100 artists in Chicago, including celebrities native to the city, contributed to the blues anthem “Sweet Home Chicago,” which raises money for the local arts community. HHM Media/U.S. Conference of Mayors HHM Media/U.S. Conference of Mayors In March, as Covid-19 began spreading across U.S. communities, Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer commissioned a song. Part of an initiative to keep residents engaged, Lift Up Lou, the resulting ballad was a tribute to the city for a social distancing era. “I’ll hold you on the other side,” dozens of local artists pledged in a six-minute music video. It was the first of nine new city anthems released this year. In Chicago, it’s a 2020 spin on the 1930s blues standard “Sweet Home Chicago.” “Come on. Everybody wants to go. Back to the same old place, sweet home Chicago,” sings a group of more than 100 participants who are raising money to support out-of-work artists. In New Orleans, it’s a jazzy number. “Do you know what it means to miss New Orleans,” a singer coos against the energetic backdrop of trumpets, trombones and violins. In Austin, it’s an ode to unity in a time of racial justice, “Walk With Me.” The new project, City Songs Collection, from the U.S. Conference of Mayors, features a playlist of locally produced anthems spearheaded by the cities’ mayors. Some resemble the kind of promotional jingles you might hear from a city trying to revive its tourism economy, while others are more directed at local residents — with lyrics touching on current challenges. All aim to deliver uplifting messages on coming together as a community. They’re performed, produced, and in some cases written and composed, by local artists or natives of the city, many of them famous locally or nationally. Grammy Award-winning musician Adrian Quesada produced Austin’s anthem, for example, and comedian/actor Keegan-Michael Key appears in the Chicago number. Some were made to raise money for pandemic relief efforts and to support struggling arts communities; others simply aim to send a message of hope.  “This was really a way for artists to feel like they had a voice, and to bring emotion back into your cities,” said Reno Mayor Hillary Schieve at a webinar Monday to discuss the collaboration. Artists from her city produced a song emphasizing the need to stay connected even amid social distancing. Detroit’s contribution is a creative cover of the song “Glory” from the 2014 film Selma, which tells the story of Martin Luther King Jr.’s fight for equal rights, and is performed by the Detroit Youth Choir, along with local hip-hop artists. The soulful ballad, currently being considered for a Grammy, reflects a summer of protests in the city following the murders of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor by police. In contrast, “New Orleans From the Heart” mirrors the festive spirit of the French Quarter. As in other major tourist destinations, pandemic-related travel restrictions have decimated a key revenue source for New Orleans, which recently announced the cancellation of its annual Mardi Gras parades. Charleston’s contribution is a “Cha Cha” dance number; Oklahoma City’s song about solidarity and activism, “Unity OKC,” features a medley of musical genres that reflect support for Black Lives Matter and Indigenous and immigrant communities. And “You Belong Here,” from Burnsville residents in Minnesota, emphasized the city’s commitment to being inclusive. The original anthem, “Lift Up Louisville” features a soft, mellow tune with lyrics acknowledging the challenges of having to stay away from friends and families. “How much longer until we can hold our loved one close,” lyrics say, “I’m gonna make it through, you’re gonna make it too.” At the time of its release in late April, Louisville was reporting hundreds of Covid-19 cases each week and residents were asked to stay home. Businesses were shutting down, and the government, facing a budget shortfall in the millions, furloughed nearly 400 city employees, while musicians were struggling financially with the closing of venues amid restrictions against large gatherings. “None of us knew how long this was going to last and all the pain that was going to come from us,” said Fischer, who also serves as president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors. “But we’ve always rallied around music in our city to lift us up.” When the music grabbed headlines, it also caught the attention of other mayors, prompting him to challenge his peers to come up with pieces of their own. The initiative, now a collaboration with Americans for the Arts with support from the National Endowment for the Arts, hopes to inspire more cities to develop their own anthems. Though the music can’t cure most of the issues the pandemic has exposed, this is “our way of making this world a little better place here during the midst of the pandemic,” Fischer said.