Andrea Jenkins, vice president of the Minneapolis City Council, told community members in June that the council would disband the police. Photographer: Jerry Holt/Star Tribune via Getty Images Photographer: Jerry Holt/Star Tribune via Getty Images Six months after Minneapolis city council members declared they would disband the police department, the council passed a budget that would maintain police staffing at its current level, and allow for potential expanded recruitment in future years. But it also includes notable reforms, including reallocating nearly $8 million dollars to alternative police responses and mental health interventions, and increasing oversight of some police funds. The decision caps off a year in which national calls to defund the police got the strongest initial reception in Minneapolis, where the police killing of George Floyd in May sparked global protests. Although falling short of cries to “defund,” these compromise changes were broadly supported by some of the most visible advocates of police divestment, after more dramatic reforms were stalled by procedural setbacks, a spike in violent crime and divided public opinion. “The ‘Safety for All’ plan is the bare minimum, but it’s still an investment. It’s a bigger divestment than we’ve ever seen from the Minneapolis police department,” said Oluchi Omeoga, an organizer with Black Visions Collective. “It’s a great win,” Omeoga added after the final vote. The council’s final budget, approved early Thursday, slashes nearly $28 million in police department funding compared to 2020. But several caveats apply: Belt-tightening was required across the board in a financially challenging year of coronavirus, meaning similarly large cuts were made across the general fund budget. What’s more, $11.4 million that is not included in the police department’s budget will be available to the police chief, but only for overtime and new recruits — and subject to city council approval. The most disputed component of the budget related not to what would get funded in 2021, but the direction of policing in future years. A reform-oriented “Safety for All” budget proposal put forward by three council members had called for reducing the department’s authorized size to 750 officers in 2022. The more modest staffing proposal was largely symbolic, since council members would have to pass a new budget next year anyway, and the current police force is even smaller than 750 after considerable attrition this year. But it drew such vehement opposition that Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey threatened to veto the entire budget over that proposal’s inclusion. On Thursday, council members voted 7 to 6 to instead increase the number of vacant officer positions it projected to fill in 2022 — a change that won’t make a substantial difference in 2021 but sent a very different message. Still, council members say the budget brings Minneapolis closer to its vision of “reimagining” it laid out this summer, by moving $5.7 million from the police budget to support the Office of Violence Prevention’s community de-escalation and restorative justice work, to launch a mental health team to respond to certain 911 calls, and to take non-emergency 311 calls out of the domain of the police. Another $2 million was cut by moving 23 civilian staff members to non-police departments. The brunt of these cuts came from the department’s overtime budget, which had swelled by 250% under Frey’s original budget proposal. Total cuts were offset by adding another one-time injection of $5 million and moving $6.4 million in ongoing spending into a staffing reserve pot. This new $11.4 million reserve fund, which is housed in the city’s Finance Department, can be used by the chief of police to pay overtime costs and fund recruit classes. What’s different about this reserve is that withdrawing from it will require city council approval. “I think it’s incredibly important for us to not just signal that we will approve endless amounts of police overtime,” council member Jeremiah Ellison told CityLab. “Police are going to have overtime, they’re going to need that. But they should have to justify how they’re spending those dollars. And the public should have a transparent way of understanding how that overtime is being used.” The final proposal was influenced by another far more ambitious People’s Budget from activists that proposed cutting police spending by more than $50 million. “If the People’s Budget would have never come out, and there was not a strong coalition of people demanding and asking for more, what would they have come up with?” said Omeoga. Promoted by a broad coalition of local groups like Black Visions Collective and Reclaim the Block, the proposal called to invest not only in alternatives to policing and mental health outreach, but in other community needs like pandemic response, affordable housing, harm reduction efforts and safe streets infrastructure. More than $10 million was proposed to dedicate to “thriving” — arts and cultural initiatives, participatory budgeting sessions and a permanent memorial in George Floyd square. The council’s budget included an overt commitment to consider these proposals in the year to come. And some council members expect to revive a debate over making more substantial cuts in the coming years. An attempt to pass a charter amendment that’s necessary to change the police department’s minimum staffing levels and leadership structure didn’t make it onto the November ballot, but could have a second life next election cycle — when  the entirety of the city council will also be up for re-election. “I think what we did with the budget and what we’re doing around public safety currently is partially constrained by the charter,” Fletcher told CityLab. Another factor for the council this year was spiking violent crime rates and a simultaneous spate of police departures. Although the department was budgeted to have 880 officers this year, Police Chief Medaria Arradondo has said 166 officers have chosen to leave over the course of the racial justice protests — retiring early, taking medical leave for post-traumatic stress disorder, or quitting. The confluence of events left the department stretched thin, as policing  slowed over the summer by some metrics. Not all of these changes were perceived as negative. As responses to 911 calls took longer, several community groups jumped into the fray to experiment with neighborhood policing alternatives, and some constituents told their representatives they sought more reliable forms of violence prevention. “The police largely do not prevent these crimes,” said one resident at Wednesday’s public hearing. “Instead, the police kill, harm and harass residents of Minneapolis.” Read more: Police Response Slowed. The Community Stepped In. But for many, including Mayor Frey, these developments seemed to exacerbate concerns that cuts to policing should not happen too hastily. “Preemptively reducing the sworn capacity by 138 officers prior to having alternative responses in place or completing the mutually agreed upon staffing study is irresponsible,” Frey said in a statement to KARE11 on Tuesday, referring to the proposal to reduce officer counts in 2022. Before he could make good on his threat to veto the entire budget over this dispute, the council voted at the eleventh hour on a new proposal to leave 140 positions open for future hiring. Council member Linea Palmisano said she proposed the amendment to preserve “flexibility” within the police department and to “give Chief Arradondo the support he needs to lead the department in the direction we all want and we all rightly expect.” Council member Steve Fletcher said the proposal would take funding away from legitimate city needs to support imaginary officers. “Open positions do not solve crimes,” he said. “They do not deter anything. They do not create a sense of safety.” The hours-long virtual public hearing leading up to the vote reflected the city’s divergent visions for what public safety means to them. One woman detailed how neighbors in her South Minneapolis community banded together to form their own safety patrol when they felt the police abandoned them. “We began to educate ourselves on how not to repeat patterns of profiling and violence from police. Many of my neighbors and I are willing to change our lives to realize a new vision for safety,” she said. “I expect the services from our cities to reflect a similar sacrifice and willingness to change.” Others warned that the budget would “handcuff” the police chief, urging the council to pass the mayor’s budget. “I do not support defunding an already over-stretched police force with no plans to address a disturbing uptick in crime,” one said. “It’s irresponsible to guess today what the size of the police force should be two years from now,” another added. Several urged the council to wait for an independent assessment before setting future staffing levels. Later, council members stressed that not all their constituents’ needs had been reflected at the hearing. “I’m looking forward to a time when we can stop normalizing, or ignoring or lying about the gun violence in our city, and how it’s impacting communities of color and how we’re losing people of color to that gun violence,” said councilmember Alondra Cano, who represents a largely Latino and East African population in South Minneapolis and who voted for the proposal to plan for more officers in future years. For activists like Omeoga, the new budget is progress. But they’re not waiting around for officials to act anyway. “This is a step,” they said. “And also, my liberation is not tied to the municipal process. I understand and know that there’s a limit to what the city council can do.”