Deaths in the U.S. from Covid-19 surpassed 3,000 a day for the first time. The U.K.’s vaccination campaign hit a stumbling block after two people with allergies experienced reactions to the Pfizer shot. Pfizer said a cyberattack had exposed some documents filed with a European regulator relating to its vaccine review. India’s largest hospital chain said it’s ready to administer one million coronavirus vaccine doses a day. Passengers disembarked a cruise ship in Singapore after a Covid-19 scare on board. California’s average rate of positive tests over 14 days reached 8.8%, the highest since the spring as cases surged to another record. U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar warned Americans to avoid crowded indoor social gatherings. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID China’s aviation regulator is recommending cabin crew on charter flights to high-risk Covid-19 destinations wear disposable diapers and avoid using the bathroom to reduce the risk of infection. The advice comes in a 38-page list of guidelines for airlines to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The sixth edition echoes similar instructions in previous, less lengthy versions. The White House coronavirus task force recommended to President Donald Trump that the U.S. start allowing in travelers from Brazil, the U.K. and 27 other EU countries, CNBC reported, citing two people familiar with the matter. Travel restrictions on travelers from China and Iran wouldn’t be relaxed, according to the recommendation, which wasn’t unanimous. U.S. deaths from Covid-19 exceeded 3,000 a day for the first time, according to Johns Hopkins University data. That surpasses record fatalities set last week, and is more than the number of lives lost in the U.S. during the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Coronavirus is infecting Americans at an ever-increasing clip in the final weeks of 2020. And that trajectory is beginning to show in fatalities: In just over a week of December, deaths were more than double the rate of the same week in November, according to Covid Tracking Project data. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention forecasts the U.S. will rise above 300,000 deaths by Christmas. Passengers disembarked a Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. ship in Singapore after a Covid-19 scare on board, though the diagnosis that cut short the trip is still in question. Passengers started to get off the vessel at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday local time, and underwent mandatory testing before being allowed to leave the terminal. Citizens in greater Seoul area can take virus tests for free for the next three weeks regardless of their symptoms, South Korean Health Minister Park Neung-hoo said in a government meeting Thursday. The nation reported 682 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours compared with 686 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency’s website. The pace of Covid-19 hospitalizations appears to be slowing in the U.S., with the average number of in-patients increasing by fewer than 500 a day from Dec. 4 to 9, data from the Department of Health and Human Services show. There were 105,035 coronavirus patients hospitalized as of Wednesday, up 2.4% from 102,579 on Friday. California accounted for about half of the national increase, with 1,289 additional Covid-19 hospitalizations over the period. It had 10,230 coronavirus cases in hospitals as of Wednesday, more than any other state. New Mexico recorded 100% utilization of its intensive-care beds, with 23.4% of all hospitalized patients in the states suffering Covid-19. Coronavirus cases accounted for at least a fifth of all hospitalized patients in Nevada, Arizona, South Dakota and Rhode Island. Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd., India’s largest hospital chain, says it’s ready to administer one million coronavirus vaccine doses a day, but the government has not made clear how vaccines will be distributed and whether private health-care networks will be involved. THe chain has so far trained 6,000 staff to give out jabs across its network of 71 hospitals, hundreds of clinics and thousands of pharmacies, according to Managing Director Suneeta Reddy, who said the company’s talks with officials in New Delhi had yet to provide any firm guidance. Chicago is expecting to get thousands of coronavirus vaccine doses this month and is aiming to offer the vaccine free of charge to all adult residents in 2021, city officials said Wednesday. After Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. receive federal approvals and city gets guidance from an immunization advisory committee, Chicago can move forward with its vaccine rollout plan. The city will allocate its initial doses to its 34 hospitals the week of Dec. 14, officials said in a press release on Wednesday. Health-care workers who treat Covid patients or conduct procedures that put them at high risk for spread will be the first to receive the vaccine. Chicago has about 400,000 health workers including doctors, nurses, and other hospital staff. Covid-19 testing in Los Angeles on Dec. 8. Much of California is in lockdown as officials warn of ICUs becoming overwhelmed. Photographer: Frederic J. Brown/AFP/Getty Images California reported 30,851 new virus cases, topping the record of 30,075 set over the weekend. The average rate of positive tests over 14 days reached 8.8%, the highest since the spring. Hospitalizations jumped 3.8% in the past 24 hours to a record to 11,965 patients. With cases soaring, much of the state is now in lockdown as officials warn of intensive-care units becoming overwhelmed. Less than half of the available 6.4 million doses of Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine will be initially sent out to states, and 500,000 will be held separately in reserve by the government, according to a top official at Operation Warp Speed. Gustave Perna, the army general who serves as Warp Speed’s chief operating officer, said on a call with reporters Wednesday that the U.S. plans to distribute 2.9 million doses in the first round of shipments following authorization of Pfizer’s still-experimental vaccine. The rest will be held back to be distributed to states and other jurisdictions when the first people vaccinated are due for their second dose 21 days later. The half a million shots in reserve will be ready for unforeseen circumstances, Perna said, calling the move “good army general officer planning.” Pfizer Inc. said some documents it had submitted to Europe’s top drug regulator regarding its Covid-19 vaccine had been accessed in a cyberattack on the agency. The drugmaker and partner BioNTech SE said in a statement that they had been told by the European Medicines Agency that some documents relating to the regulatory submission for their vaccine and that had been stored on the EMA server had been unlawfully accessed. The companies said that none of their systems had been breached in connection with the incident and that “we are unaware that any study participants have been identified through the data being accessed.” The companies said EMA informed them that the attack would have no effect on the timing of the vaccine review. More than half of the French don’t plan to get a shot against Covid-19, according to a survey by pollster Elabe for BFM TV published on Wednesday. Of those surveyed, 52% said they certainly or probably won’t get vaccinated, up 4 points from two weeks earlier. That’s even as 70% of respondents said they’re worried about the coronavirus. Resistance to the vaccine is greatest in political groups opposed to the government of Emmanuel Macron, the survey found. The coronavirus was circulating in Italy as early as the end of November 2019, according to a new report published by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, lending weight to other studies that have suggested an earlier appearance of the disease in Europe. Operation Warp Speed, the U.S. program to accelerate drugs and vaccines to thwart the pandemic, is in negotiations with Merck & Co. to secure supply of a treatment for the deadliest cases of Covid-19. As hospitalizations top all-time highs in the U.S., Warp Speed’s chief scientific officer, Moncef Slaoui, told Bloomberg that talks with Merck for the under-the-radar drug, CD24Fc, ensued after the drug giant acquired a 10-person biotechnology company that had spent decades developing it. Within months, patients with severe and critical cases of Covid-19 could get access to the intravenous treatment that appears to halve the risk of both respiratory failure and death. Alex Azar Photographer: Chris Kleponis/CNP/Bloomberg The U.S.’s Azar said it’s important to wear a face covering and avoid indoor gatherings as the holiday season approaches. “Please look out for those overcrowded indoor gatherings,” he said on CNN. “Whether it’s restaurants or bars or multi-household gatherings, just please be careful.” The U.K.’s National Health Service warning about allergies came a day after the U.K. became the first western nation to begin a Covid vaccination program. Both patients, who were staff members of the NHS, are recovering well, according to the health service. — With assistance by Ken McCallum, Jason Gale, Seyoon Kim, and Jeff Sutherland