Asian stocks were mixed in early Friday trading as U.S. lawmakers continued to wrangle over a federal-spending deal in Washington. The dollar held losses. Shares dipped in Hong Kong and Australia, and edged higher in Japan and South Korea. S&P 500 futures were little changed after the index climbed for a third day to a record high. A bipartisan U.S. stimulus deal “appears to be close at hand,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said, but will probably require work over the weekend to get through Congress. Investors earlier took an unexpectedly large rise in jobless claims as a sign the two sides would be prodded toward an agreement. Treasury yields held overnight gains. Elsewhere, the yen was steady ahead of the Bank of Japan policy decision. Oil edged back from the highest level since February. Bitcoin breached $23,000 for the first time. With the clock ticking to renew pandemic aid, leaders in Washington are under pressure to resolve their differences after months of deadlock amid signs of a faltering economic recovery. The country continues to set records for virus infections and deaths, with more jurisdictions tightening lockdowns in a renewed threat to the economy. The stimulus package “ought to be a sufficient bridge,” Steven Wieting, global investment strategist at Citigroup Private Bank, said on Bloomberg TV. “That along with at this stage a preparedness for this Covid emergency and the fact that vaccines are ahead by mid-year, would certainly be sufficient to get us through this period of weakness.” Meanwhile, leaders from across Europe are isolating after coming into contact with French President Emmanuel Macron, who tested positive for the virus. Pfizer and U.S. regulators are revising information for the company’s vaccine after rare allergic reactions. The FDA is meeting to discuss emergency approval for Moderna’s shot. Elsewhere, the euro remained near the highest since April 2018 as officials cautiously predicted a Brexit deal within days. Both held their gains after European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said “big differences” remain. Jeff Currie, head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs, sees Bitcoin and copper as risk-on growth proxies, calling the cryptocurrency “the retail inflation hedge.” Source: Bloomberg These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Claire Ballentine, Vildana Hajric, and Dave Liedtka