Moderna Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine won backing from a panel of experts who advise U.S. regulators, setting the stage for its shot to be the second vaccine cleared in the U.S. Pfizer Inc. said it has shipped all 2.9 million doses that the U.S. government ordered this week, while governors from several states say the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention told them they will get fewer doses than planned. In Australia, Sydney is battling to contain an outbreak with swift state restrictions, while South Korea’s daily cases again topped 1,000 for a third straight day.California set a record for fatalities for the second consecutive day as the U.S. passed 17 million total infections. French President Emmanuel Macron tested positive for Covid-19. WATCH: French President Emmanuel Macron was tested after showing mild symptoms of Covid-19 and will isolate for seven days. Source: Bloomberg China is planning to distribute 100 million vaccines made by Sinopharm and Sinovac before Lunar New Year to prevent coronavirus outbreaks during the holiday travel season, South China Morning Post reports, citing an unnamed health specialist “with knowledge of” a training meeting to prepare for mass inoculations. It is planning to vaccinate high-priority groups such as health workers, police officers and transport and logistic workers, while inoculations for the general public aren’t expected to start until after the Chinese New Year. Mesoblast plunged as much as 45%, the most ever in intraday trading, after the Australian drug developer said its stem cell medicine isn’t likely to meet a target for reducing mortality in a trial of Covid-19 patients. Australia’s largest city reported an additional 10 cases on Friday, taking the total cluster on Sydney’s northern beaches to 28, prompting states to reimpose restrictions on visitors coming from New South Wales. The outbreak ends a more than month-long run with limited community transmission in New South Wales state. FDA advisers agreed Thursday that the benefits of Moderna Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine outweigh any risk, giving a boost to efforts to ramp up the U.S. immunization campaign. The effort is initially focusing on health-care workers and seniors who live in long-term care facilities. The FDA could authorize the shot within the next day. Moderna’s product is based on the same technology as a shot made by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE that was cleared by the FDA last week, and like that vaccine showed a high degree of efficacy in late-stage clinical trials. At Thursday’s advisory meeting, some of the discussion focused on a handful of allergic reactions experienced by people in the U. S. and U.K. who got the Pfizer shot. Comments by President Vladimir Putin signaling caution about Russia’s coronavirus vaccine reverberated in Argentina, where the government plans to use it on priority groups, including the elderly. Argentina will await the final results before importing the vaccines by plane to Buenos Aires, said a person familiar with the matter. Putin, 68, expressed caution about taking the Sputnik V vaccine, saying at a news conference earlier Thursday that it hasn’t been fully tested on people his age. Microsoft Corp. called for an accelerated reopening of elementary schools in Washington State and pledged protective equipment, cleaning supplies and technology to track Covid-19 tests. The company, based in Redmond, Washington, also called for teachers to be prioritized in the state’s vaccination plans. The comments from the software giant come a day after Governor Jay Inslee loosened the state’s guidelines for school reopenings. Inslee’s announcement Wednesday was condemned by the statewide teacher’s union and also comes as hospitalizations linked to the virus have surged in the state over the past month. Leaders from across Europe announced they’re isolating after coming into contact with French President Emmanuel Macron who tested positive for Covid-19. Hours after being tested positive for Covid-19 after what an official described as “mild symptoms,” Macron, 42, took part in a conference about development aid via video, from isolation. His 67-year-old wife Brigitte tested negative on Thursday. Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Dec. 17. Photographer: Charles Platiau/AFP/Getty Images Macron is suffering from a cough, fever and fatigue, an official in his office said. Macron will isolate and work in a state residence known as “la Lanterne” in Versailles, while his wife will remain at the Elysee Palace. Florida reported 13,164 new cases among residents, the most for a single day since a summer surge in mid-July. The state’s positive-test rate, which stayed below 8% on most days in December, came in at 8.8% on Wednesday, according to health department data. A medic transfers a patient at a hospital near Miami, Florida earlier in December. Photographer: CHANDAN KHANNA/AFP Deaths declined from 87 as recently as a month ago to four in the latest daily update. Many U.S. states are going to get fewer vaccine doses than originally planned, according to Washington State Governor Jay Inslee, marking what could be a significant hiccup in the effort to distribute shots to all Americans. Next week’s allocation for Washington, the state that saw the first outbreak of the epidemic in the U.S., was cut by 40%, Inslee, a Democrat, said on Twitter. “All states are seeing similar cuts,” he said, adding the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention didn’t give the state any explanation. .@CDCgov has informed us that WA’s vaccine allocation will be cut by 40 percent next week — and that all states are seeing similar cuts.This is disruptive and frustrating. We need accurate, predictable numbers to plan and ensure on-the-ground success.No explanation was given. On Monday, Washington said it was expecting 62,400 doses of the Pfizer vaccine this week and a total of 222,000 by the end of the month. The Evergreen State, which has about 7.6 million residents, would also get 183,800 doses of Moderna’s vaccine this month if that inoculation is approved by regulators. Washington’s frustrations echo complaints from states including Illinois, Michigan and Florida. California reported 379 daily coronavirus deaths, breaking the record of 293 set just yesterday. The state had 52,281 new infections, for a total of more than 100,000 in the past two days, though the health department said some of those cases reflect a processing backlog. People wait in line to get a Covid-19 test in Los Angeles, California on Dec. 16. Photographer: Frederic J. Brown/AFP/Getty Images The home of 40 million people is facing a rapidly worsening crisis that is threatening to overwhelm medical systems. Hospitalizations jumped 3.3% over 24 hours to a record 16,426 patients, while the number of people in intensive care climbed 2.8%. Four of the state’s five regions are now under stay-at-home orders after ICU capacity fell below a 15% threshold. Ireland is likely to bring in new coronavirus limits before year-end, Prime Minister Micheal Martin told RTE Television. Ireland had planned to tighten restrictions on Jan. 6 after easing them for three weeks over Christmas. Now though, restrictions are likely to come in earlier, Martin said. The so-called reproduction number is now between 1.1 and 1.4, with case numbers rising steadily, he said. The government is likely to set new restrictions on pubs and restaurants, while limits on household visits will be tightened. There were about 480 newly confirmed cases on Thursday, Martin said. That’s the highest level in a month. The U.K. recorded its highest daily increase of coronavirus cases since the pandemic began, in part because Wales added thousands of previously unreported infections. A further 35,383 new cases were reported, about 11,000 of them as a result of “system maintenance in the NHS Wales Laboratory Information Management System.” Even without the additional cases, the number is a worrying sign that the U.K. hasn’t fully controlled its second outbreak, with the seven-day rolling average steadily creeping higher. Earlier on Thursday more areas of England were moved to the nation’s highest level of coronavirus restrictions. France’s coronavirus situation is worrying as the number of new cases is rising again after a November decline and the year-end holiday period will increase infection risk, the country’s director general of health said. “We know we have a two-week risk period ahead of us, this being the festive period,” Jerome Salomon said in a briefing on Thursday. France registered 18,254 new Covid-19 cases over 24 hours, the most since Nov. 20. The rolling seven-day average of cases, which smooths out fluctuations over a week, jumped 5.3% to 12,764, back to levels last seen at the end of November. Pfizer Inc. said it has shipped all 2.9 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine that the U.S. government ordered this week and that it has millions more doses sitting in warehouses awaiting instructions for where to ship. Some governors have complained this week that their allocations of Pfizer’s vaccine are less than what they had expected. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has said Pfizer is experiencing production issues, an assertion that Pfizer rejected. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar made similar claims in a briefing Wednesday. Coronavirus-related deaths rose above 100 in New York state again -- the highest since mid-May. Meanwhile, of the 202,772 coronavirus tests conducted statewide on Wednesday, 5.38%, or 10,914 were positive, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Thursday during a briefing in Kingston. There were 120 virus-related fatalities. Covid-19 deaths have been above 100 three of the last seven days. Cuomo declared a state of emergency in 18 counties as a snowstorm barraged parts of the state. The distribution of the coronavirus vaccine has not been disrupted by the storm, he said. WATCH: New York Governor Andrew Cuomo says there were 120 coronavirus-related deaths in the state on Wednesday. (Source: Office of NY Governor Cuomo/Bloomberg) Pfizer Inc. and U.S. drug regulators are revising information for use and monitoring of the company’s Covid-19 vaccine developed with BioNTech SE after rare allergic reactions were seen in some recipients. The revisions reflect guidelines from the CDC for following vaccine recipients and managing potential reactions, Doran Fink, deputy director of FDA’s division of vaccines and related products applications, said Thursday in a meeting of FDA advisers. Two people in Alaska who received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine suffered reactions, which have also been seen in vaccine recipients in the U.K. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Tony Czuczka, Dina Bass, and Anna Edney