Roads to nowhere: PIRG’s annual highway boondoggle list targets projects that fail to deliver on their transportation goals. Photographer: Andrew Harre/Bloomberg Photographer: Andrew Harre/Bloomberg Fun fact: A century ago, the word “boondoggle” referred to the boxy lanyards that kids weave at summer camp. It gained its other meaning in the mid-1930s, after U.S. news reports revealed that a federal New Deal program was paying jobless workers to learn and teach the craft to disadvantaged youth. President Roosevelt’s critics latched on, and while his administration defended and continued its policies, the term became synonymous with useless government spending. Nearly 100 years later, arguments over what constitutes wasteful expenditures take on a more existential tenor as the U.S. faces a public health crisis and runaway global warming. Released this month, the U.S. Public Interest Research Group’s sixth annual report on highway boondoggles is an example: It calls out “seven budget-eating highway projects slated to cost a total of $26 billion that will harm communities and the environment, while likely failing to achieve meaningful transportation goals.” Highways often get greenlit for expensive work because they require engineering upgrades or significant maintenance. The projects in PIRG’s least-wanted list go beyond those basic needs. Like the group’s previous boondoggle roundups, this one calls attention to taxpayer-funded projects set to consume environmental resources, cut through existing communities, and lock in decades of new carbon emissions, for what PIRG argues is little payoff in congestion relief or economic growth. The 2020 report arrives as the ongoing pandemic clobbers state and local budgets and dramatically reshuffles travel patterns. The largest on the list is Florida’s M-CORES project, a $10 billion, 330-mile plan to build three toll roads through rural southwest and central Florida. Dubbed the “Billionaire Boulevard” by critics who characterize the project as a handout to developers, a state task force recently found a lack of “specific need” for any of the roads, which would run through environmentally sensitive areas. “We find ways to go into debt to pay for highways, but with transit agencies, the first thing we think to do is cut service.” There’s also the Cincinnati Eastern Bypass, a $7.3 billion highway set to loop around the eastern side of Cincinnati. Originally proposed by a local homebuilder as a replacement (and then some) for the aging bridge that leads into downtown Cincinnati, the 75-mile, four-lane bypass is designed to divert trucks passing through the region on Interstate 75, easing congestion for local drivers, boosters claim. But the report’s authors state that the highway is projected to add thousands of new vehicle trips per day, encouraging sprawl and contradicting Cincinnati’s goals to increase “population density and transit-oriented development” and decrease fossil fuel use by 20%. No highway policy critique would be complete without a contribution from Texas. The $1.36 billion Loop 1604 Expansion in San Antonio would add four to six additional lanes on 23 miles of an existing four-lane highway, as well as new frontage roads and a five-tier interchange with Interstate 10. Texas DOT says that the new lanes are needed to keep up with population growth, but transportation planners say that the  principle of induced demand would cancel out the benefits while adding pollution. The PIRG report puts it this way: “Additional capacity causes more driving and congestion.” The status of these projects vary — some have already been approved for state and federal funds, while others are still under the scrutiny of planners and environmental analysts. Some could be blocked by the financial crises facing state governments as a result of the pandemic, which saw the highest unemployment rate since the Great Depression. But state departments of transportation have shown an increased willingness to take on massive debts to build these roads, said Matt Casale, U.S. PIRG’s climate campaigns director and a co-author of the report. Analyzing data from the U.S. Federal Highway Administration, the report finds that highway debt shouldered by state transportation agencies more than doubled, from $111 billion to $228 billion, between 2008 and 2018. Meanwhile, public transit agencies are planning dramatic service cuts to close multi-million dollar budget holes due to pandemic ridership losses. “You can see the misplaced transportation priorities playing out in real time,” Casale said. “We find ways to go into debt to pay for highways, but with transit agencies, the first thing we think to do is cut service, even though for climate reasons that is the opposite of what we should be doing.” Rocky Moretti, the director of policy and research at TRIP, a transportation industry research group, said that the PIRG report fails to address future population and freight delivery pressures on the nation’s roads, which are the means for its primary mode of transportation: driving. “The nation’s overworked and congested highway system is in need of modernization and in some cases modest capacity expansion,” he said. With respect to specific items in the report, Moretti said, “decisions on whether to proceed with these projects, which will enhance residential, employment, cultural, recreational and commercial access, are best made by state and local governments based on thorough analysis and public consultation.” But highway-building projects, once in motion, can be hard to halt. In an appendix, PIRG looks back on the 51 projects singled out in earlier boondoggle lists and reports their current status: Four were canceled entirely, and five are on hold; the rest are either completed, under construction, or still under review. State transportation departments were originally formed as road-building agencies with close ties to road-building industries, and many are still structured around that task. Apart from the powerful belief that new roads stimulate economic development — a belief that, in highly developed countries, research draws mixed conclusions about — federal funding formulas reward states with larger populations that do more driving. Can the incoming Biden administration, which has promised to prioritize curbing emissions and rejoin the Paris Climate Agreement, change that equation in the coming years? The President-elect’s climate and infrastructure plans include promoting the expansion of electric vehicles, reviving the Obama administration’s focus on long-distance rail connections, and supporting public transit, walking and biking. His new pick for Department of Transportation secretary, former South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg, has also signaled a less car-centric vision of the country’s infrastructure priorities. The PIRG report recommends a host of alternatives to highway expansions that might align with the Biden brand of federal  leadership, including road pricing measures, better cost-benefit analyses, and transportation projects that reduce rather than encourage driving. But the history of boondoggles, infrastructural and otherwise, suggests that there will always be more examples coming down the road.