Tables spaced out with children's belongings sealed in plastic due to coronavirus at a school in London. Photographer: Daniel Leal-Olivas/AFP/Getty Images Photographer: Daniel Leal-Olivas/AFP/Getty Images London Mayor Sadiq Khan called for schools in the capital to close to stem a rising tide of coronavirus infections that threatens to push the city into the government’s tightest pandemic rules. Khan wants schools to break early for Christmas, with lessons continuing online until the end of term, and to reopen later than usual in January. In a statement on Twitter, the mayor also called for face coverings to be made mandatory in all busy outdoor public spaces such as shopping streets. London members of Parliament were being briefed by health officials on the pandemic picture in the city on Monday morning. “The surge in coronavirus cases across our capital is deeply concerning,” Khan said. “I am calling on the government to urgently provide additional support to get the spread under control, save lives and livelihoods and ensure our NHS is not overwhelmed this winter.” Covid-19 cases are rising in our city. I urge the Govt to heed my call and provide us with the extra support we desperately need to get the virus under control, save lives, save jobs and protect our NHS. pic.twitter.com/n75L0wPN5r The virus is rising across vast swathes of the capital, mainly in the east and north, and last week Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the fastest increase is among school children aged 11 to 18. The government is due to review coronavirus restrictions across the country on Dec. 16, and data revealed to London’s MPs last week showed the city on track to be placed in Tier 3, the highest level of restrictions. There are more than 3,000 schools in London, according to the mayor’s office. One London borough, Greenwich, has already requested the closing of schools from Monday evening, citing a “period of exponential growth” in the virus that “demands immediate action.” “We now have the highest rates of infection in Greenwich than at any time since March,” council leader Dan Thorpe said in a letter published on Twitter. “I wouldn’t be asking for this unless the risk was extreme.” Following my earlier statement, here is an open letter to families across @Royal_Greenwich asking schools to close their premises from tomorrow across #greenwich. As a teacher myself, I know how valuable education is but our rates are rising too quickly & action is needed. pic.twitter.com/VClICoCoLQ Tier 3 entails the closure of pubs, bars, restaurants and indoor entertainment venues -- though not schools. Khan last week warned of a “long winter ahead of us” and said Tier 3 restrictions would be “catastrophic” for the capital’s hospitality industry. But the Labour mayor’s call for schools to be closed will put him in conflict with Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative government, which has made keeping them open a priority. “The plan is for schools to stay open, we think that’s the best thing for pupils,” Business Secretary Alok Sharma told Sky News on Monday. “We will work with local authorities on a case-by-case basis.”