The combination of working at home, juggling child care, and pivoting entire business plans on short notice because of the coronavirus outbreak has forced us all to learn new tricks. Here are skills some productive people have picked up this year. We rely so much on body language during in-person interactions. On Zoom, the next best option is to read the eyes. You can discern a lot by observing a person’s gaze, eye direction, blinking, dilating pupils, etc. —Michael Kipness, founder, Wizard Race & Sports Thanks to virtual-meeting apps, I’ve been able to connect with decision-makers and validate sales easier than ever. Sharing and commenting on posts is also a great way to get on the radar of busy people. —Faith McKinney, field sales representative, U.S. Postal Service Zoom culture has forced me to hone my question-asking skills. While some nuance is lost in digital-only communication, I like how it forces focus, clarity, and depth. —Ara Katz, co-founder, Seed Health The Pomodoro method helped me avoid getting distracted by all the tempting chatter, TV, calls, and endless Slack messages. I start a task, set a timer for 25 minutes, and when the alarm goes off, I take a five-minute break. After doing four of these, I break for a half-hour. It’s a very specific way to organize your time. —Sarah Johnson, associate director of public relations, Merchant Maverick When I started juggling work and virtual school, I tried to coordinate the routine by myself and it didn’t work. So I got the family involved each evening in creating a visual daily plan with our school tasks, meetings, and commitments. It’s a one-page layout that I post on the fridge for everyone to see. —Megan Sumrell, organization and productivity coach Working from home, everything just blurred together. Juggling projects all day and working evenings, it was hard to get a break in. Now I look at the next week and block out meetings, “real” work, and a daily walk for my dogs. I try to save the last 30 minutes to wrap things up, with no meetings on the schedule. This has helped me address my top priorities. —Kelly Capra, head of human resources, Joyn Bio I’ve taken my hands-on digital skills to the next level, learning to host online seminars and making new connections around the world. —Sidra Ijaz, research analyst, InvoZone Since I’m not commuting, I have time to pick up a book while I’m on a break or having lunch. It really enriches my life and inspires me to approach work differently. —Mark Hayes, head of marketing, Kintell I set a routine to properly end the day. —Mike Greenberg, editor, Mythology Source