Photographer: Patricia De MeloMoreira/AFP/Getty Images Photographer: Patricia De MeloMoreira/AFP/Getty Images Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Huawei Technologies Corp. is positioning itself to get more business in Ethiopia, as the East African economy opens up its telecommunications sector. “Ethiopia is rising and becoming much more important for the future,” Loise Tamalgo, Huawei’s Vice-President for Southern-Sahara Africa, said in an interview in Ivory Coast’s commercial capital, Abidjan. The company is likely to move a regional office covering about five countries from the Democratic Republic Congo to Ethiopia, where it currently only has a country office, he said. “Our strategy is very simple,” Tamalgo said. The company plans to leverage its position as the main vendor of the state-owned monopoly Ethio Telecom to bid for opportunities in the country, he said. Liberalization of the telecom industry is at the forefront of what Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed said in 2018 would be a wide-ranging privatization program. The plan was intended to bring in much needed foreign exchange and boost the economy, while improving connectivity across the Horn of Africa nation. The country plans to issue two new telecom licenses next year and sell a 40% stake in Ethio Telecom. Read More: Huawei Strengthens Its Hold on Africa Despite U.S.-Led Boycott Vodacom Group, a subsidiary of U.K.’s Vodafone Group, is among carriers planning to bid for licenses, though an ongoing military conflict is giving the carrier cause for concern. MTN Group, Africa’s largest career by subscribers, and Paris-based Orange SA have also expressed interest in entering Africa’s second-most populous country, with more than 100 million people. Last week, the U.S. International Development Finance Corp. approved a loan of as much as $500 million to a Vodafone-led consortium seeking to start an Ethiopian mobile-phone network operator. The facility will finance the design, development and operation of a new private mobile network provider and the acquisition of a license. China’s biggest tech firm has a long-term approach to Africa, which currently represents 5% of its global revenue, Tamalgo said. Other priority markets for the company on the continent are Ivory Coast, Senegal, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Cameroon. “The governments there are willing to do a lot of projects,” he said. How Huawei Landed at the Center of Global Tech Tussle: QuickTake As Huawei has emerged as a leader in 5G, a technology which promises super-high-speed connectivity, it’s also become a major target of the U.S., which has been trying to convince its allies to ban Huawei equipment from their national networks on spying concerns. The UK decided in July to join the boycott, followed by Sweden. Huawei has repeatedly denied that it helps China spy on other governments and companies. In Africa, where it is a top vendor ahead of rivals such as Nokia Oyj and Ericsson AB, several leaders have defended the company. South African president Cyril Ramaphosa said at summit in August that Huawei was a victim of the trade war between the U.S. and China, and that his country couldn’t afford to get caught in that fight. Ethiopia, Kenya and other countries across the region have echoed Ramaphosa’s stance. — With assistance by Samuel Gebre