Maricopa County constable Lenny McCloskey evicts an apartment resident for non-payment of rent in Phoenix in October. Between past due rent, late fees and unpaid utility bills, Americans may collectively owe $70 billion by January, when the current  federal eviction moratorium is set to expire. Estimates for the nation’s total rent shortfall on Jan. 1 range in the tens of billions of dollars, potentially exceeding the amount of emergency rental assistance that Congress may or may not deliver over the next few weeks. If lawmakers fail to act, the New Year could trigger a long-feared disaster — an  avalanche of evictions during the dead of winter, as the pandemic rages. Back rent owed by struggling U.S. households — about 11.4 million renters in all — averages about $6,000 per household, or around three-and-a-half months’ rent, according to Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody’s Analytics. Most of it has accrued since the expanded unemployment benefits under the CARES Act expired over the summer. “These are low-income households,” he says. “They’ve probably already borrowed as much as they can from family or friends. They have no resources left.” Renewing those benefits, which served as a life raft for out-of-work households during the early months of the pandemic, is an option in the mix for a second stimulus package, albeit a remote one. The White House reemerged in talks on Tuesday with a  $916 billion proposal that would include one-off checks for $600, half the amount of the earlier round of stimulus checks. But this plan would forego the supplemental unemployment benefits sought by Democratic and Republican lawmakers of $300 per week, half the bailout they got under the CARES Act. The bipartisan $908 billion bid also includes $25 billion in emergency rental assistance as well as a potential three-month federal moratorium on evictions. But even if lawmakers could turn the money spigot back on today, the funds won’t reach many needy people in time, says Stockton Williams, executive director of the National Council of State Housing Agencies. It took months for some state-chartered Housing Finance Agencies to stand up rental aid programs authorized by the CARES Act. “Money has to flow from Treasury to state legislatures to wherever it goes in state-agency-land,” Williams says. The National Council of State Housing Agencies commissioned its own report on the nation’s overdue rent, arriving at a figure of $34 billion back in September. Stout, the global advisory firm that produced the report, has since issued a  biweekly report on households facing eviction, drawing on data from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey and its weekly Household Pulse Survey. Stout’s tracker currently estimates that 7–14 million households will face eviction for nonpayment in January, with rental arrears totaling between $13–24 billion. “To be evicted in the dead of winter in the middle of a pandemic has got to be terrifying.” This more recent, lower calculation is not necessarily an indicator of less need, according to Neil Steinkamp, managing director at Stout. Some renters got emergency aid in the fall — 34 state housing agencies set up such emergency programs — but they may need more help this winter, as the pandemic enters its most dangerous stage yet. It’s also harder to account for tenants who paid the rent by credit card or negotiated down their leases. Some have already been displaced, voluntarily or otherwise. “Renters have sacrificed in every other conceivable area — food, nutrition, healthcare — to pay the rent,” Williams says. “Landlords have shown real forbearance and tried to work with residents.” Eviction notices are already piling up on sheriffs’ desks across the country. And according to the National Multifamily Housing Council’s rent payment tracker, on-time rent payments for apartment buildings are down substantially this month. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released an update in October indicating that landlords could still file for evictions over nonpayment, even though the moratorium lasts through Dec. 31. So far, the agency has made no indication that it will renew the order, and  landlords continue to challenge it. If the total for rent in arrears is closer to the $70 billion estimate, that’s a meaningful but not overwhelming figure in terms of the economy, Zandi says: about 0.4% of GDP. “The wild card, from a macro perspective, is what these evictions do to consumer sentiment,” he says. “If people recognize that the government will not be there to support them if they lose their job, even if you have a job and have a home, that has to be disconcerting. People might grow more cautious.” For individuals, the risk can’t be overstated. The economic crisis has pushed both renters and landlords to the brink, and aid is stalling as the pandemic is worsening. For millions of Americans, paying January’s rent might be an insurmountable challenge, to say nothing of making good on months of back rent. “To be evicted in the dead of winter in the middle of a pandemic has got to be terrifying for these renters,” Zandi says.