Joshua Wong ahead of sentencing on Dec. 2.. Hong Kong activist Joshua Wong was sentenced to 13 and a half months in jail for leading a protest outside police headquarters last year, in one of the most high-profile cases in the government’s crackdown on the pro-democracy movement. Wong was sentenced Wednesday in West Kowloon Magistrates’ Courts on charges of organizing an unauthorized assembly in June 2019 and inciting others to take part. The 24-year-old leader of the city’s 2014 Occupy protests had pleaded guilty last week to the charges, which carried a maximum sentence of three years in prison. Activists Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam, who were both members of Wong’s now-disbanded political party Demosisto, also pleaded guilty over their roles in the protest. Chow, 23, was sentenced to 10 months in jail while Lam, 26, was given seven months. The June 21, 2019, siege outside the Hong Kong Police Force’s compound in Wan Chai was among the most dramatic moments in the early days of last year’s historic protests against legislation that would’ve allowed extraditions to mainland China. Wong -- then fresh out of jail -- joined the rally to oppose the police’s decision to tear gas against protesters. Dozens of high-profile democracy advocates, including lawmakers, lawyers and billionaire media mogul Jimmy Lai, are facing jail time as Chief Executive Carrie Lam’s government seeks to punish participants in last year’s largely leaderless protests. Police have arrested more than 10,000 people on various allegations, including 26 under new national security legislation carrying sentences as long as life in prison. The effort to prosecute Wong -- who testified before the U.S. Congress last year and was subject of the Netflix documentary “Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower” -- has drawn condemnation from Western government officials. Chow’s case has also helped solidify criticism of Beijing in Japan, where local media has dubbed her “the goddess of democracy.” My heart goes out to my friend Joshua Wong, the people of #HongKong & all those subject to inhumane treatment simply for standing up for human rights & freedom. President Trump has less than 60 days to demonstrate that he understands the values that make our nation great. https://t.co/AAj74KVDie pic.twitter.com/CSLKQEmHYM Outside the court, a half-dozen pro-China supporters nearby chanted that Wong, Chow and Lam were traitors. “Lock them up forever,” they yelled, with some bringing bottles of sparkling wine along to celebrate. Two pro-democracy supporters chanting in support of Wong were quickly cleared from the scene by police, who said they had been standing on the court’s driveway. “The protest movement is over,” said Alexandra Wong, a protester known as Grandma Wong who attended rallies over the course of Hong Kong’s unrest last year, outside the court. “They’re arresting all lawmakers, even young activists, teenagers, even a grandma like me. Put charges on us for nothing, trying to silence us. It’s over.” Joshua Wong had previously served more than four months in jail for leading protests in 2014, when he was still a high school student. After pleading guilty last week, Wong was taken into custody where he was held for some 72 hours in a lit hospital room because police wanted to determine whether a shadow on a stomach X-ray indicated he had swallowed a foreign substance. The activist is still facing charges related to his participation in an annual candlelight vigil to mark the June 4, 1989, crackdown on Tiananmen Square activists in Beijing, which had been banned due to coronavirus restrictions. He’s also among those arrested over an October 2019 protest against a ban on face masks that has since been ruled unconstitutional and replaced with a requirement to wear them. — With assistance by Iain Marlow