Health officials across Asia are facing a wave of Covid-19 outbreaks, as Australia’s hot spot Victoria state announced a daily record of more than 700 cases and Vietnamese capital Hanoi halted large gatherings. Hong Kong will reportedly relax its dine-in ban and allow breakfast and lunch services at restaurants starting Friday, a move that comes after the government imposed some of its tightest virus-related restrictions yet. In the U.S., deaths from the virus surpassed 150,000, the highest official toll in the world. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell warned of the most severe economic downturn “in our lifetime” as officials left interest rates near zero and vowed to use all their tools to support a recovery. The House will require masks for all lawmakers while in the chamber. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The Asian financial hub is set to relax its dine-in ban and allow breakfast and lunch service at restaurants starting this Friday, local outlet Now TV reported, citing unidentified people. A maximum of two people will be allowed per table -- in keeping with the city’s current social distancing restrictions -- and restaurants’ capacity will be capped at 50%, the report said. Other Hong Kong media outlets have also reported the news. Tokyo authorities will ask restaurants and karaoke establishments to shorten their operating hours and close no later than 10 p.m. owing to a surge in virus infections, the Nikkei reported, without attribution. The measures will be in place from Aug. 3 to Aug. 31 and the local government is considering giving a 200,000 yen subsidy to businesses that cooperate, it said. Japan’s sprawling capital found at least 365 new cases of coronavirus Thursday, FNN reported, without attributing where it got the information. Kyodo, meanwhile, said it would report a record of about 370, citing an unidentified source. The city confirmed 366 cases last Thursday -- a record daily number. It had 250 on Wednesday. Japan’s Foreign Ministry announced the new rules under which some of its foreign residents will be allowed to return from abroad. The move follows criticism that the country’s current virus restrictions were separating families and disrupting livelihoods. The terms stipulate that permanent residents of Japan, spouses of Japanese citizens and some others will be permitted to enter starting Aug. 5. They must provide documentation and proof of a negative Covid-19 test conducted less than 72 hours before travel. The country, which is battling a new Covid-19 wave after initial success in containing the virus’s spread, reported 18 new infections for a total of 14,269. People line up at a pop-up Covid-19 testing clinic in Sydney, July 29. Photographer: Jenny Evans/Getty Images Australia announced a daily case record with its epicenter Victoria logging 723 new cases. State premier Daniel Andrews told reporters there had been 13 more deaths from the virus, bringing Victoria’s total to 105. Prime Minister Scott Morrison, speaking later to reporters in Canberra, called the spike “very concerning.” The rise came despite a lockdown in Melbourne that was aimed at calming the outbreak. Worries are growing that the city’s weeks old stay-home order will need to be extended further in the southern state, taking a bigger toll on its economy. The country reported 102 local coronavirus infections for July 29, the National Health Commission said in a statement, amid its biggest spike in domestic Covid-19 cases in months. Three more cases were imported, it said. Ninety-six of the new cases were found in Xinjiang, the far west region that has been in the spotlight as China’s treatment of its Muslim Uighur population is criticized globally. Vietnam found eight more local cases in the central city of Danang and one in Hanoi, bringing the Southeast Asian nation’s total to 459. Hanoi halted public gatherings of more than 30 people, as officials in the capital worried that the Danang cluster would spread. Bars were ordered closed and religious and cultural gatherings -- as well as other large events -- suspended, Hanoi’s government said on its website. Vietnam this weekend reported its first community cases in more than three months in Danang, after having nearly claimed victory over the coronavirus. Relatives of victims killed by Covid-19 fix the graves in Valle de Chalco, State of Mexico, on July 28. Photographer: Alfredo Estrella/AFP via Getty Images Mexico reported 5,752 more Covid-19 infections, according to Health Ministry data, as cases continue to surge in Latin America. The country’s death toll rose by 485 to 45,361 -- with Mexico set to overtake the U.K. as the hot spot with the third-highest number of deaths worldwide from the virus. Victoria state is set to announce a record 723 new cases of the coronavirus as a lockdown of the city of Melbourne struggles to contain the outbreak, the Australian newspaper reported. The new tally beats the previous record by almost 200, the newspaper said, without citing the source of its information. Watch: Daniel Andrews, premier of Australia’s Victoria, says the state recorded 723 new Covid-19 cases, a record for the country. (Source: Bloomberg) California, Texas and Florida each reported record daily increases in deaths from Covid-19 Wednesday, showing the virus’s grim wrath in the most populous states in the U.S. Texas recorded 313 new deaths from Covid-19, pushing the cumulative fatalities to 6,190, according to state health department figures. Total cases rose by 2.3% to surpass 400,000. In California, there were 197 new virus deaths, exceeding the 14-day average of 109 and bringing its total to 8,715. Florida reported 216 additional deaths among residents, for a total of 6,333. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.9% as compared with the same time Tuesday to 4.39 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was higher the average 1.6% daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose 1.1% to 149,961. A medical staff helps a patient who is wearing a ventilator at the United Memorial Medical Center in Houston on July 28. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images — With assistance by Karen Leigh, Kara Wetzel, and Jeff Sutherland