A Delta Air Lines Inc. bag drop counter at San Diego International Airport. Delta Air Lines Inc. says the resurgence of coronavirus cases and travel restrictions have stalled a fledgling recovery in U.S. demand, prompting the carrier to slash service it had hoped to return to its schedule. The airline will add back no more than 500 flights in August instead of the 1,000 it had planned. It doesn’t see adding much more through year-end. “Demand growth has largely stalled,” Chief Executive Officer Ed Bastian said in an interview. “The pace of improvement from this point is going to depend on consumers’ confidence in flying.” The carrier on Tuesday reported a record quarterly adjusted loss of $2.8 billion after a coronavirus-driven collapse in demand slashed revenue by 91% in the three months through June. Delta leads off major carriers reporting earnings for the first full quarter affected by the pandemic. Analysts will comb its results for signs of how well the industry is coping. While airlines last month indicated they were climbing back from the depths of the pandemic, the latest surge for the virus has raised fears the nascent recovery will be quashed. The airline doesn’t expect further reductions to its daily cash burn in July, ending a string of monthly improvements that brought the rate to $27 million a day last month from $100 million in March. The second-quarter average was $43 million. Delta cut operating expenses 53% by parking some planes, retiring others and reducing labor expenses, thanks in part to 45,000 workers taking voluntary unpaid leave, the Atlanta-based airline said in a statement. The adjusted results exclude write-downs totaling $2.5 billion in restructuring charges, mostly for aircraft retirements, and nearly $2.1 billion on Delta’s investments in Latam Airlines, bankrupt Grupo Aeromexico and Virgin Atlantic Airways. Read more: Virgin Atlantic Seals $1.5 Billion Rescue Led by Davidson Delta dropped 4% to $25.74 at 9:35 a.m. in New York. The stock had tumbled 54% this year through Monday, in line with other big U.S. carriers, but much worse than the 2.3% drop registered by the S&P 500. The magnitude of the quarterly loss “illustrates the truly staggering impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on our business,” Bastian said in the statement. “We continue to believe that it will be more than two years before we see a sustainable recovery.” Despite the setback, Delta still expects to reduce cash burn to zero by year-end and to return to “profitability, marginally,” by spring, he said. “Not a lot, but that’s the hope.” Credit Suisse analyst Joe Caiado was skeptical. “The June exit rate also suggests that our projected $29 million average daily cash burn for Q3 is too pessimistic, though break-even by year-end still seems optimistic without material increases in flying,” he said in a note to investors. At least 15,000 workers signed up for early retirement or voluntary separation packages ahead of a Monday deadline, Bastian said. The figure doesn’t include pilots, who have another week to decide. The results could help reduce or eliminate the need for furloughs later this year. Delta ended the quarter with $15.7 billion in liquidity through a combination of government and other financing. The airline is considering whether to take an additional $4.7 billion federal loan. The carrier reported an adjusted loss of $4.43 a share, while analysts expected $4.22, based on the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Operating revenue tumbled to $1.18 billion, while analysts projected $1.43 billion. Delta’s net loss was $5.7 billion, or $9.01 a share. The carrier’s air-traffic liability, representing tickets sold for future travel and estimated credits to be used, totaled $5 billion.