The U.K. suspended its extradition treaty with Hong Kong and placed it under an arms embargo in moves likely to exacerbate a diplomatic spat with China after it imposed a new security law on the former British colony. The moves are “a necessary and proportionate response,” U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab told the House of Commons on Monday. The suspension will stay “unless or until there are clear, robust safeguards which are able to prevent extraditions from the U.K. being misused under the new national security legislation,” which allows some cases to be transfered to mainland Chinese courts, he said. Though halting the extradition agreement and suspending arms sales are largely symbolic acts, they mark the latest condemnation by Boris Johnson’s government of Chinese conduct in Hong Kong, and will trigger anger in Beijing. It comes less than a week after the U.K. banned China’s Huawei Technologies Co. from next-generation wireless networks on security grounds and follows London’s invitation to as many as 3 million Hong Kongers to apply for British citizenship. “This embargo means there will be no export from the U.K. to Hong Kong of potentially lethal weapons, their components or ammunition,” Raab said. “It will also mean a ban on any equipment, not already banned, that might be used for internal repression such as shackles, intercept equipment, firearms and smoke grenades.” In recent years, the U.K. government has issued licenses to British companies allowing them to export to Hong Kong items including tear gas, anti-riot shields and body armor, according to Campaign Against Arms Trade, a pressure group. Speaking to reporters in Beijing on Monday before Raab’s statement, Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin accused the U.K. of “brutal” meddling in China’s internal affairs and urged the British government to halt its “wrong words and actions.” The diplomatic row with China has come at an inopportune time for Johnson, who is trying to reset the U.K.’s ties with the rest of the world after divorce from the European Union this year. His government wants to secure free-trade deals with countries around the world as it seeks to deliver the benefits it promised from Brexit. But the prime minister is facing extreme pressure on his China policy both from lawmakers in his own Conservative Party and from overseas, especially U.S. President Donald Trump. It was the Trump administration’s sanctions on Huawei that finally led to the U.K. banning the company from its 5G networks. That followed repeated warnings from Washington, which is embroiled in a long-running trade stand-off with Beijing, that it would disrupt intelligence-sharing if London didn’t fall into line. U.K. Confronts China, Russia to Define Role Beyond Europe The pressure from the U.S. is unrelenting. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo visits London this week to meet Raab and U.K. lawmakers to discuss a range of topics, including “the fact that China now concerns everyone,” Conservative lawmaker Bob Seely said in an interview. Meanwhile a growing number of Tory MPs, like Seely, are pressuring Johnson to rethink the U.K.’s relationship with China over its behavior in Hong Kong, reports of human rights abuses in Xinjiang and its handling of the coronavirus outbreak. Chinese officials have warned of the consequences for the U.K. if it treats China as a “hostile” partner. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said last week that the U.K. government has a choice: “Will it remain independent or will it become a catspaw for the U.S.?” In London, members of Parliament from all parties called on Raab to impose sanctions on Chinese individuals and declare China’s treatment of the Uighur Muslim minority in the northwestern province of Xingjiang as genocide. “Frankly what the legal label on it is to me secondary than the plight of the victims who are suffering under it,” Raab said. He is wary of introducing sanctions on individuals because “if you introduce those targeted sanctions in this field, or indeed any other, without having done your factual evidential due diligence, not only are they likely to be challenged but you’re at risk of giving a propaganda coup to the very people that we are seeking to target,” he said. According to U.K. Home Office figures, between 2016 and 2019 there were only two extraditions completed from Hong Kong to the U.K. and none in the opposite direction. Between 2010 and 2015 there was one extradition from the U.K. to Hong Kong, and one the other way. “China is a giant fact of geopolitics; it’s going to be a giant factor in our lives in the lives of our children and our grandchildren,” Johnson told broadcasters on Monday. “So we’ve got to have a calibrated response and we’re going to be tough on some things, but also we’re going to continue to engage.” — With assistance by Ellen Milligan, Joe Mayes, Alex Morales, and Libby Cherry