A resurgence of the virus in Hong Kong escalated after the city found at least 16 new cases on Thursday, raising the number of infections since July 5 to 47, according to news website HK01. The Hang Seng Index retreated after earlier gains. Global infections topped 12 million after new cases in the U.S. and Mexico accelerated. Tokyo found 224 new cases, a record for a single day, even as officials continued to assert that a state of emergency isn’t necessary. Business conditions in Dubai showed signs of picking up in June as the city reopens. Britain’s biggest homebuilder, Persimmon Plc, says sales reservations have recovered strongly since the government eased its lockdown measures. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Pakistan’s government plans to reopen schools as authorities estimate the rate of infections from coronavirus are declining. The administrations will have to follow strict “standard operating procedures,” Education Minister Shafqat Mahmood said at a news conference. Eight public-housing tower blocks that were completely shut down in Australia’s second-biggest city will be reopened after a testing blitz, authorities said. Residents, who were told they couldn’t leave their apartments under the stringent controls, will now be allowed to leave for essential work, study, exercise or shopping -- in line with measures imposed across the rest of Melbourne. Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc moved to boost its finances as the idling of global jetliner fleets weighs on engine sales and robs the company of vital maintenance revenue. The company has a commitment for a five-year loan worth 2 billion pounds ($2.5 billion) that’s underwritten by a syndicate of banks and backed by a guarantee from U.K. Export Finance. Australia’s stock exchange is extending special rules until Nov. 30 to help listed companies raise cash more quickly during the coronavirus crisis. Britain’s biggest homebuilder, Persimmon Plc, says sales reservations have recovered strongly since the government eased its lockdown measures. The rebound comes after the government effectively froze the housing market for about six weeks by halting viewings and telling people to stay at home to reduce the spread of the coronavirus. The market has been gradually re-opening after restrictions on home viewings were eased in May. Fast Retailing said operating profit for the fiscal year through August will probably be 130 billion yen ($1.2 billion), down from prior guidance of 145 billion yen and slighly below analyts’ average estimate. The company also cut its forecast for sales. The financial hub found at least 16 new locally-transmitted virus cases as of 9:30 a.m. on Thursday, HK01 reported. At least 10 of the latest batch of cases were of unknown origin, HK01 said, indicating that authorities may struggle to contain the current outbreak. Germany’s coronavirus infection rate fell the second day in a row, while the number of new cases stayed far below the level at the height of the outbreak. The reproduction factor -- or R value -- dropped to 0.70 on Wednesday from 0.81 the previous day, according to the latest estimate by the country’s health body. Business conditions in Dubai showed signs of picking up in June as the city reopens after a lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Non-oil private sector activity in the Middle East’s business hub improved for the first time since February, according to IHS Markit’s Purchasing Managers’ Index. The gauge rose from 46 in May to 50 last month -- the mark that separates contraction from growth. United Airlines Inc. extended its suspension of flights to and from Hong Kong, citing new coronavirus testing protocols for crew arriving in the Asian financial hub, while American Airlines Group Inc. also canceled plans to resume services from Dallas/Fort Worth. Hong Kong updated its Covid-19 prevention and control measures this week, requiring all air crew members arriving at the city’s airport starting Wednesday to provide throat saliva samples at a government facility nearby. Tokyo braced for a rise in the number of virus infections Thursday, while the minister in charge of the pandemic response said there was no need to declare an emergency. Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura, who leads the nation’s coronavirus response, said that virus cases in Tokyo may rise Thursday and Friday, and that measures will be taken in risky areas. Governor Yuriko Koike meanwhile warned that figure may be very high, as the capital steps up testing, with much of it being focused around night-time businesses such as host and hostess bars. Tokyo is set to have a meeting of its monitoring panel Thursday. Mexico reported a record daily rise of 6,995 confirmed Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 275,003, according to data released by the Health Ministry Wednesday night. Deaths rose by 782, to 32,796. Mexico saw record daily rises in cases three times in the last week as it moved forward with reopening the economy. It has surpassed Spain and France to become the country with the fifth deadliest outbreak. The government found 6 additional locally-transmitted virus cases after the 4 p.m. cutoff time for the daily count on Wednesday, HK01 reported, citing unidentified people. An almost three-week lull in local infections has come to an abrupt end, with 19 new community transmissions reported Wednesday and the government expressing fears that the city might be in the early days of a wider outbreak. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government will offer subsidies to nightlife establishments in stricken areas that close because of the coronavirus, Asahi reported, citing an unidentified official. Outlets that close for 10 days or more will receive 500,000 yen ($4,660), according to the report. Texas had its second straight day of record virus deaths, at 98, bringing total fatalities in the state to 2,813. Virus cases rose 4.7% to 220,564, exceeding the seven-day average of 4%. The 9,979 new cases were second only to yesterday’s record of 10,028. Hospitalizations jumped by 324, or 3.5%, which was less than the seven-day average of 5.2%. As cases continued rising in Houston, epicenter of the state’s biggest outbreak, Mayor Sylvester Turner said he was canceling the Republican Party’s state convention that was to be held in the city next week. The mayor also objected to proposals to reopen public schools in August, saying it was premature for such discussions until the outbreak is under control. Donald Trump speaks during a rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on June 20. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Bloomberg The top health official in Tulsa, Oklahoma, said that President Donald Trump’s June 20 campaign rally and accompanying protests likely boosted the number of coronavirus infections in the area. “We do have the highest number of cases, and we’ve had the significant events in the past few weeks that more than likely contributed to that,” Tulsa Health Department Director Bruce Dart said Wednesday at a news conference. Trump held the rally despite pleas from local authorities to delay because they were already seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases. An estimated 6,200 people came to the city’s 19,000-seat BOK Center, many without masks. Tulsa County reported 261 and 206 cases for Monday and Tuesday, eclipsing Tuesday’s seven-day rolling average of 146.7. Los Angeles County reported 2,496 new coronavirus cases, bringing its total to more than 123,000, along with 65 additional deaths. “We are at a very critical juncture in our pandemic,” Barbara Ferrer, the county’s public-health director, said at a press briefing. The county, home to 10 million people, has been the hardest-hit part of California. The rate of positive tests has jumped to 10.4% on a rolling seven-day average, a level not seen since late April. Ferrer warned that thousands more people may require hospitalizations that could overwhelm the health-care system if infections numbers aren’t brought under control. Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker called for a “national mask mandate” to stem the spread of the coronavirus as states attempt to reopen. Staff members wearing protective masks meet around a table at a JLL office in Chicago. Photographer: Christopher Dilts/Bloomberg “This might be the most important thing we can do to save lives,” he said Wednesday in testimony to the House Homeland Security Committee. Illinois imposed a mask mandate on May 1 and there has been “shifts in our infection rate,” he said. “A global pandemic requires a national response, but that is not what happened,” he said, and states are looking to federal officials for guidance. “It’s not too late for the federal government to make an impact, in fact, it’s more important than ever.” — With assistance by Andre Janse Van Vuuren