A home in central Boulder, where housing prices have been spiking. Photographer: Cliff Grassmick/Digital First Media/Boulder Daily Camera via Getty Images. Photographer: Cliff Grassmick/Digital First Media/Boulder Daily Camera via Getty Images. This spring, the founders of the Boulder ballot initiative campaign Bedrooms Are for People wanted to drum up support for a measure that would amend the city charter and relax the rules around household occupancy in the fast-growing Colorado city. Average rents in Boulder jumped 41% between 2011 and 2018, and some YIMBY advocates — those are adherents of the “Yes In My Backyard” movement — targeted a city rule that prevents more than three unrelated people from living together in the same house. The amended city charter would set the occupancy of homes at the number of bedrooms plus one. And as an amendment to the city charter, the rule would be part of Boulder’s constitution.But Bedrooms Are for People hit a pandemic-related snag on March 24, when Boulder’s stay-at-home order went into effect. The campaign needed to gather thousands of signatures, in the face of motivated opposition, to get the initiative on the ballot in November. Even after a stay-at-home order lifted in early May,  Covid-19 pretty much ruled out using the usual signature-gathering tactics of going door-to-door with a clipboard or soliciting supporters at public events. Coronavirus didn’t stop the YIMBYs from following through with their ballot push, though. The campaign changed course. Instead of striking out to hunt for signatures, the organizers instead asked people to sign up online for an in-person visit. When enough people in a given ZIP Code signaled their interest, the campaign dispatched a masked volunteer with a clipboard, who drove to each address to collect a signature. To get over the finish line, the campaign redefined what it means to pound the pavement — essentially mounting a petition via delivery. “I find the conversations we have at someone’s door are really meaningful as opposed to getting strangers to pay attention to us when we’re in front of the grocery store,” says Chelsea Castellano, co-chair for the Bedrooms Are for People campaign. Most of their signatures came through in-person appeals, under the unusual circumstances presented by the city’s gradual reopening. Castellano says that advocates staked out ground on hiking trails, for example, outdoor places where nature-loving Boulderites were sure to be out and about (and socially distanced). For its mobile petition unit, Bedrooms Are for People developed a Google form and blasted it out on social media. Co-chair Eric Budd says the group has 80 deliveries to do over the next two weeks. “It was easy enough to string them out like a UPS driver would do deliveries,” he says. People who want the measure to fail have organized, too. Critics of Bedrooms Are for People say that the measure would “dormify” Boulder. Despite missing time from March through May, Bedrooms Are for People nevertheless collected about 6,000 signatures. That’s likely more than enough to put the initiative on the ballot. Yet the grassroots organizers say there’s one more hurdle to overcome: City officials abruptly moved the deadline for filing the petition. On July 10, Boulder City Attorney Tom Carr said that the city had misinterpreted local and state election laws when it set an August 5 deadline; instead, the correct date was June 5. Under the new interpretation, the city cannot legally certify the petitions for Bedrooms Are for People. (Another initiative, Our Mayor Our Choice, which wants to change the city charter to hold direct ranked-choice elections of the mayor, is in the same position). That window closed more than six weeks ago. “The only way that August 5 is the deadline is if you apply some parts of the state law and not others,” Carr said in an email. “There is a theory that would support this interpretation and which the lawyer who reviewed the clerk’s guidelines supports. I do not agree.” People who want the measure to fail have organized, too. Critics of Bedrooms Are for People say that the measure would “dormify” Boulder. Citizens for Sanitas, a neighborhood group that opposes a senior living facility being planned for Mapleton Hill, has a whole section of its site devoted to the ballot measure, warning it will bring “stealth dorms” to Boulder. Housing is a fraught issue in the city: Back in 2015, a group called Livable Boulder tried to amend the city charter to give individual neighborhoods veto authority over zoning changes for planned developments. The  mega-NIMBY measure was crushed at the ballot box. On the pro side of the issue: Colorado Governor Jared Polis signed an executive order on July 12 calling on municipalities that place limits on housing occupancy to lift those restrictions at once. It was one of several items meant to help tenants that are struggling due to the pandemic. The governor says that lifting these restrictions will “enable homeowners to rent or give a room or rooms to those in need of housing.” There’s still hope for Bedrooms Are for People (and Our Mayor Our Choice) to make it onto the ballot: The Boulder City Council meets on July 21 to decide whether to use its authority to put the initiatives on the ballot (pending a review of petition signatures). But the organizers aren’t confident about this plan. Mayor Sam Weaver gave a diffident answer when the Daily Camera asked him about the measures; currently the mayor is a city council member selected by a majority of the council. The city attorney didn’t reply to a question about the option. Five of the nine council members (including Weaver) oppose their measure outright, according to Budd and Castellano. They allege that one council member, Bob Yates, even asked two different nonprofit housing organizations not to endorse Bedrooms Are for People. “That is not accurate,” Yates says by email. Short of moving the measure forward (or pocketing it), the council could also change the initiative so that it applies to local code. That would put it within the council’s jurisdiction, as opposed to an amendment to the city charter. At least one council member supports moving the measures ahead as is, however, on process grounds alone. “I have not weighed in on the merits of any of our 2020 direct-democracy ballot measures yet, because we are still voting on processes that impact them,” said Boulder City Council member Rachel Friend, in an email. “But I’ve been steadily advocating for ways to help enable direct democracy in a year which has presented multiple unique hurdles. At this point, I believe City Council should refer the Bedrooms Are For People petition to the ballot.” Friend says that the debate over whether the state or local deadline applies misses the point. Bedroom Are for People garnered 6,000 signatures — during a pandemic — under the instructions given to them by the city. That ought to satisfy gatekeepers. “The petitioners have certainly met the spirit of our elections guardrails, which are intended to ensure voters only would be asked to vote on ballot measures for which there is ample community support,” she says. Budd and Castellano say that the pandemic should never have been an obstacle in the first place. Two years ago, Boulder voted by a nearly 3-to-1 margin to pass a ballot measure allowing electronic signatures for future initiatives. But the city never built or licensed such a system, with Denver’s eSign program being one prominent option. The organizers say that the council is slow-rolling this process in order to thwart ballot measures meant to change governance in Boulder. That’s how the organizers frame Bedrooms Are for People — not as a safety rule about parking or noise or trash, which are quality-of-life concerns that the council should regulate — but as a non-discrimination ordinance built into the city’s constitution. “There are lots of ways that we need to work on discrimination,” Castellano says. “This is one of the ways that would be impactful for a city that prides itself as being a progressive place.”