Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Tunisia’s president warned the nation is facing its worst political crisis since independence, urging all parties to set aside differences that have left the divided parliament in a “state of chaos.” Kais Saied, in a video on his Facebook page, said he’s allowing time for lawmakers to reach a solution before he decides whether it’s necessary to use his constitutionally mandated powers to “save the state from collapse.” The comments come amid deepening political divisions exacerbated by the resignation of Prime Minister Elyes Fakhfakh at Saied’s behest last week after authorities opened a probe into a possible conflict of interest. Others lawmakers are now seeking to withdraw confidence from the speaker, Rashid Ghannouchi, leader of the moderate Islamist Ennahda party. The turmoil is weighing on the North African nation’s economy, which could contract 7% this year and badly needs a united parliament to take tough decisions. Moody’s said Monday that the latest political developments are credit-negative, with Tunisia facing “a difficult quest” to form a government. Prolonged consultations on a new administration or fresh elections will delay negotiations with the International Monetary Fund for a new support program, Moody’s said. A constitutional law professor before his shock electoral win last year, Saied appointed Fakhfakh in February after a premier chosen by Ennahda, the largest party, failed to gain backing from a majority of lawmakers. The president is now gathering suggestions from political parties for a new prime minister-designate by Thursday. Saied’s due to announce his pick by July 26, with his choice then given 30 days to propose the make-up of a new government and get lawmakers’ approval. Tunisia’s constitution explicitly allows the president to dissolve parliament only if it fails to agree on a government. But it also extends him the right to take unspecified measures if the security, independence or functioning of state institutions is in jeopardy. “The constitutional prerogatives are there, in fact they are like missiles on pads ready to be launched,” Saied said in a meeting with Ghannouchi and other senior parliamentary officials.