A tram passes by closed hotels in Lisbon on May 14, 2020. With tourism down, the city has instituted a plan to turn some vacation housing into long-term rentals. Across the world’s cities, vacation apartments that were fully booked this time last year lie empty. Affected by lockdowns, quarantine measures and social distancing, it seems likely that the Airbnb-dominated short-stay market will not fully return to pre-pandemic levels for some time—if ever. For cities that draw many visitors, that leaves a question mark over the fate of apartments that previously catered to tourists. A new plan in Lisbon aims to fill some of these vacancies—while tackling an affordable housing problem that has only been exacerbated by coronavirus. This spring, the Portuguese capital launched a program to encourage short-stay landlords to get their apartments back onto the long-term rental market. Anecdotal evidence suggests this is already happening organically to some extent in many cities. Lisbon is encouraging this process by taking the risk away. Participating landlords will no longer rent their properties to individual tenants, but to the city itself. The program, called  Renda Segura, or “secure income,” works like this: Landlords afraid of their apartments lying empty can apply to rent them to the municipality, for a minimum term of five years. The city in turn takes on the burden of finding tenants, through an affordable housing program targeted at young people and lower income families. Rents are capped at levels between 450 euros ($509) per month for a one-bedroom to 1,000 euros ($1,130) for a generously sized house. For landlords, the income from these fixed rents might be lower than they could have earned from renting to tourists, but it is at least risk and hassle-free, and exempts them from both property and capital gains taxes. Current data suggests that short-stay landlords across Europe may soon need to look for alternative uses for their properties. According to vacation rental analysts AirDNA, bookings on Airbnb and rival short-stay platform Vrbo for week 29 of 2020 (starting July 13) have fallen drastically compared to 2019. In Lisbon, they have plunged year-on-year by 76%, in Amsterdam by 75% and in Paris by 74%. In the early stages of the pandemic, at least, this drop in demand wasn’t matched by a drop in offerings—the number of apartments offered on France’s short-stay market only dropped by 3.2% between January and March 2020. This could be a sign that, under pandemic conditions, landlords are still wary of removing their listings from the market and committing themselves to permanent tenants. It’s too early to say if a plan like Lisbon’s is what cities will need to make landlords feel safe enough to shift to long-term rentals, but already, the program has attracted a small number of landlords. The city announced Monday that 177 apartments have been accepted from the first round of applications, submitted between mid-May and the end of the June. In a city where 25,000 apartments are officially registered as vacation rentals, that initial increase in affordable homes for rent may be barely noticed. But if the program continues to grow over the next few years—another round of the application process is already planned for September and October—it could have a perceptible effect on the severe lack of affordable housing in Lisbon. In the first nine months of 2017 alone, the city  saw almost 1,500 evictions of families from central Lisbon. Perhaps just as significant could be the effect of injecting more full-time residents into central districts where tourism has come to dominate. As long-term residents have given way to tourists, workaday neighborhood stores and services have been disappearing, replaced by businesses catering to  visitors’ instant needs. The result is a city that has fewer resources to serve its own residents' needs, fueling a tourist industry that ends up sapping the sort of urban vibrancy that attracts visitors in the first place. Airbnb maintains that, for its part, the company helps local families remain in Lisbon. A spokesperson said in a statement that “60% of local hosts say the additional income they earn from hosting means they can pay the bills and support their families.” The statement added: “We will continue working with everyone in Lisbon to ensure that travel on Airbnb benefits local families, businesses and communities.” Concerns over a glut of tourists before the pandemic prompted many cities to institute new policies. Fearing that tourist businesses were narrowing the inner city’s available range of stores, Amsterdam moved in 2017 to restrict planning approval in the city center for new fancy cheese stores or “Nutella shops”—places that specialize in selling waffles slathered in hazelnut spread to tourists. Lisbon, meanwhile, has already placed preservation orders on  at-risk historic stores to prevent the premises’ use being changed to something more instantly lucrative with visitors. Other cities, notably Barcelona, have fought to keep permanent residents in tourist areas by cracking down on  illegal vacation rentals and barring approval for  new hotels. It remains to be seen whether a pandemic-fueled reduction in tourists will ease some of these concerns. But if Lisbon’s new program gains more traction, other cities that have faced similar struggles—and prepared their own laws and programs to curb the vacation rental market—will no doubt be watching closely.