Sydney's beloved terrace houses were featured in a public art installation by James Voller in 2016. Photographer: William West/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: William West/AFP via Getty Images (This story is part of an ongoing series on the home designs that define cities. Read more here about iconic floor plans in  Singapore, London, Berlin, Amsterdam and Paris.) Walk past a row of terrace houses in one of Sydney’s inner suburbs and you can’t miss the feature that sets them apart from their British cousins. In the heat and light of Australia’s east coast, their veranda-like balconies—flush to the face of the building and often decorated with ornate cast-iron balustrades—are multi-functional, shielding each house from the elements and providing its residents with a private patch of outdoor space looking out into the street below. It’s a small but perfect adaptation to fit the Australian context, as useful to the middle-class families and house-sharing students who tend to occupy them now as they were to the workers they were built for a century or more ago. But inside, what’s striking is just how little Sydney terraces diverge from the standard British design. In the first half of the 19th century, when terrace homes arrived in Australia, the country was still a British colony with a growing need for inexpensive housing within a few miles of its city centers. The earliest terraces tended to be the work of British or British-trained architects, who took a floor plan found all over U.K. cities and dropped it virtually unaltered onto the other side of the planet. “The terrace house doesn’t really make sense in the Australian climate,” says Katelin Butler, co-editor of “The Terrace House” and editorial director of Architecture Media. “But the good thing about a terrace house is that it has a compact footprint, it is efficient in its land use.” Layouts do vary a little — some may be four storeys tall, and width can vary from about four meters to 12 or more — but in general Australian terraces follow the “two up, two down” model familiar to residents of London, and other English, Welsh and Irish cities: Two rooms at street level, two bedrooms upstairs. The ones still in use today usually also have a “service wing” extending out behind, containing a kitchen, laundry and bathroom. Originally, many terraces only had an outhouse containing an unplumbed “dunny can” — essentially a large metal bucket, the contents of which would be collected for disposal by the “night-soil man” via a back lane.  Those distinctively Australian balconies were a later addition. By the late 19th century they had become commonplace; local flora and fauna, such as ferns and kookaburras, even began to appear in some of the cast-iron decorations. Connecting walls — some as little as one-brick’s-width thick — kept construction costs low, as did building on narrow plots of land. In a vast country bathed in sunshine, ungenerous dimensions (and at times poor building practices) generally resulted in narrow, gloomy homes that often suffered from bad ventilation and dampness. Perhaps the reason the model endured anyway is because Australians and Brits have a shared idea of what a smallish family home should be. According to the book “The English Terrace House” by  Stefan Muthesius,  the model home has been “compact, tightly fitted around the medium-sized family, owner-occupied, its plan above all manageable and concentrated around the core of the hall and the staircase” since the 19th century. A property needn’t be freestanding, but “the exterior… tries to mark out the individual house and there is further scope for individuality in the decoration.” Terrace houses satisfied a need for compact, individual urban homes, but by the start of the 20th century many inner-city rows had become slums, with multiple families sometimes occupying a single cramped property. In the 1920s, the building of new terraces was effectively banned in most of Australia and many existing ones were demolished in the decades that followed. As people got richer and transport improved, the quarter-acre suburban block—well-supplied with light and space—became the Australian property status symbol of the mid-20th century. But over the past few decades, Australia’s terrace houses have started to regain popularity. Thanks to their convenient locations (not to mention those pretty balconies), terrace houses have become prime targets for renovators, with modern redesigns often focused on increasing sunshine via additional windows or light wells, as well as maximizing space. Terraced neighborhoods have become hot spots for gentrification, pushing out  Aboriginal communities or recent immigrant groups in some areas. Lawyers, journalists and other professionals now own and occupy many homes that would have housed laborers, shopkeepers or student renters 20 or 25 years ago. Price tags of several million dollars for these properties are not unheard of. “There’s just a lot of nostalgia surrounding the terrace house,” Butler says. “Maybe you lived in a run-down terrace house when you were studying at university… or maybe you aspire to live in a terrace house because there’s some kind of status associated with that kind of typology.” “They are a picturesque feature of Australia’s heritage-listed inner suburbs,” she says. The ideal of the medium-sized, self-contained house clearly still appeals to a lot of Australians: In a 2016 survey of Sydney and Melbourne households, just 8% of respondents said they would choose a city-center apartment over a detached house or medium-density dwelling (such as a terrace) further out of town. In 2018, the state of New South Wales, where Sydney is located, introduced a housing code aimed at making it easier for developers to build new medium-density homes. With Australia’s population once again in a growth period, its best housing solution may still be adapting a basic layout first created 10,000 miles away, several centuries ago.