Lying on his double bunk bed in San Quentin State Prison, M can touch both walls of the four-by-nine-foot cell he shares with one other inmate. They’re both sick with Covid-19, he believes, like more than 2,000 other people in San Quentin who have contracted the disease since an outbreak began raging through the Bay Area maximum security facility last month. They’d put up a curtain on their door to shield the cell from errant droplets, but a guard ordered them to take it down. Through the slim bars, he can hear other inmates coughing. M won’t share his name, because he called me on an illegal cell phone after a friend passed along my contact information from an internal listserv. His symptoms showed up after a shower about three or four weeks ago. He started getting queasy, he says, then was blinded by a headache. During the worst of it, he was throwing up constantly. Since March, the more than 3,400 incarcerated people inside San Quentin have been on lockdown; they’re barred from having visitors or making regular phone calls, and they have limited opportunities to mix with other prisoners. But Covid-19 found its way into the 168-year old prison anyway. The first case was detected in June. As of July 21, there were 869 active cases, according to the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR); another 36 people tested positive and were released, and 1,173 had the virus but recovered. Thirteen men have died. The ferocity of the San Quentin outbreak has intensified calls from public health and legal experts, criminal justice activists, and some elected officials to do something that many advocates have demanded for years: speed the process of dismantling America’s mass incarceration complex. Demands to “decompress” overcrowded state prisons have spread nationwide since coronavirus arrived, in order to protect inmates, prison workers, and the communities surrounding the nation’s carceral infrastructure. The decarceration movement has dovetailed with recent efforts to reform policing and address racist systems: More than half of the U.S. prison population is African American or Hispanic. The U.S. prison population — the largest in the world, with about 2.3 million Americans behind bars — is now a deadly point of pandemic vulnerability. More than 6% of the California prison population — just over 7,000 people — have tested positive for the coronavirus, along with another 1,000-plus prison staff members. Nationally, incarcerated people are 5.5 times more likely to contract the disease, and three times as likely to die from it, a study by Johns Hopkins and UCLA researchers found. As of July 14, nine of the top ten infection clusters in the U.S. are jails, prisons and correctional institutions, according to a New York Times analysis. San Quentin ranks second on the list, just under Marion Correctional Institution in central Ohio. “While we have missed the opportunity to prevent the most harm, we can still change course and strive to reduce further harm going forward,” wrote Manohar Raju, the San Francisco Public Defender, and Chesa Boudin, the San Francisco District Attorney, in a July 6 letter urging Governor Gavin Newsom to reduce the state’s prison population. On July 10, Newsom announced that he would do just that, identifying up to 8,000 people in California prisons who could be eligible for expedited release by the end of August. It’s the “biggest reduction of prison population in recent history,” says CDCR press secretary Dana Simas in an email to CityLab. She didn’t have any firm numbers on how many people would be released from San Quentin, or on what timeline. “We are taking further measures to decompress the incarcerated population through additional release actions that align both public health and public safety.” Like many states, California’s prison population has dropped during the pandemic, in part because transfers into state prisons from county jails have been halted. After shrinking by 10,000 people, about 100,000 people remain behind bars — meaning California’s prison system is at 123% capacity, just under a 137.5% maximum enforced by the U.S. Supreme Court. San Quentin’s population, meanwhile, dropped from 4,051 in March to 3,482 at the end of June. But it’s still over its capacity of 3,082. Experts from the University of San Francisco and the University of California Berkeley School of Public Health say that officials must go much further, reducing the San Quentin population by at least 50%. Releasing scores of people who’ve spent years in prison in the middle of a pandemic introduces new challenges, reentry experts warn: Formerly incarcerated people are more likely to suffer from substance abuse and mental health issues and face increased barriers to finding already-scarce employment and stable housing. Newsom has argued for more measured mass releases in part for this reason,  saying that “to leave people out on the streets is not something I will do.” These issues speak to a more national problem of over-criminalization, criminal justice experts say. “As the pandemic goes on, we’re seeing a lot of people realize just how hard it is in this country to release people from prison, which teaches folks why it’s so difficult — even in normal circumstances — to walk back this mass incarceration crisis we’ve created,” said Wanda Bertram, a spokesperson for the Prison Policy Initiative, a criminal justice think tank. California’s decarceration dilemma is made harder by the state’s affordable housing shortage. “They’re trying to make an oil tanker turn around at the speed of a sailboat, and you can’t do that; even with the most skilled skipper, he’s going to take a little time,” said Judith Tata, the executive director of the nonprofit California Re-entry Program (CRP), which helps secure transitional housing for people who have just been released from prison. “They’re turning around in a narrow channel, and the channel is the available housing.” But decarceration advocates argue that it’s too late to wait, and urge the state to draw on the collective resources of nonprofits, communities, families, and vacant hotels to get as many people released as possible. They see the moment as an opportunity to make a real dent in a prison population stuffed to the gills, bolster reentry resources, and disrupt the persistent link between poverty and criminalization. “I’m happy that people are getting out, but this isn’t enough,” said Philip Melendez, program manager at the prison reform nonprofit Re:Store Justice, who served time at San Quentin before his release three years ago. Freeing 8,000 people would thin only 7% of the state’s prison population, Melendez notes; he wants Newsom to expand the release criteria to get more people out as soon as possible. “Those are lives that are going to be spared — hopefully — but even then it’s not guaranteed, between now and the red tape that has to be cut for these people to be identified and released,” he said. The virus consuming San Quentin has commanded a large amount of national attention, for several reasons. Unlike many state prisons, which are often sited in remote rural areas, the prison is located in wealthy Marin County, just north of San Francisco. The Bay Area is home to a large number of volunteers with close ties to incarcerated people inside — among them, the 700 men on the state’s only death row. The notorious facility, which opened in 1851 and is the oldest prison in California, is also saddled with fundamental design obstacles to controlling infection: Instead of solid doors, there are bars; the old ventilation system filters stale air through neighboring cells’ ducts. Showers are only permitted once every few days, with up to 50 men washing at once under 15 to 20 showerheads. (In the past few weeks, M says the groups have been thinned to 10.) Each building is meant to hold 400 people, but typically houses 800 in small cells with double bunks. “The cells are cramped, the dorms are cramped, you’re unable to social distance,” said Melendez from Re:Store Justice. “It’s cruel and unusual.” San Quentin’s design vulnerabilities were compounded by preventable missteps. The first cases were only detected after a transfer of 121 incarcerated people from Chino State Prison in May, the San Francisco Chronicle reported. Up to a month had passed since the men had last been tested for coronavirus; after they arrived at San Quentin, a few tested positive, and case counts began to grow. The prison’s crisis has not been self-contained: Staff members flow in and out of the facility daily, potentially exposing loved ones and in turn, the broader Bay Area. Even the most recent infection rates reported by the CDCR may not reflect the true extent of the pandemic’s toll inside San Quentin. “For advocates or family members or reporters, San Quentin has kind of gone dark,” said Anoop Prasad, the staff attorney for immigrant rights at the Asian Law Caucus. “Their priority is not on stopping Covid, but stopping word of Covid.” With visitors, calls and programming paused, those incarcerated inside the locked-down facility are isolated. “Depressing doesn’t even begin to” describe it, M said. “It’s a frantic search to keep your mind busy.” A spokesperson for the CDCR said that phone calls and yard recreation activities have been restricted to stop the spread of coronavirus, a choice made with the consultation of the California Department of Public Health.  “These actions are not taken lightly, but are being done to stop the spread so that we can protect all those who live and work at San Quentin and safely return to normal operations as quickly as possible,” a spokesperson said. M tested negative for coronavirus several weeks ago, before coming down with symptoms; he’s since refused more testing, because he’s afraid of further isolation if he tests positive. Others with Covid-19 diagnoses have been taken to the prison’s alternative care sites (ACL) — six triage tents, plus an on-site California Prison Industry Authority furniture warehouse. The tents have a 10-person capacity each, but CDCR’s Simas said she didn’t know how many people are currently being held there; the warehouse currently houses 101 people. If officials move him into the converted warehouse, M says he won’t be allowed to bring a TV, a fan, or any extra food. (“The ACL is treated as a transfer to an outside hospital,” said Simas in an email. “[T]he patient may bring writing supplies and books, but all other property remains in the patient’s assigned cell.”) Instead, he’s been choosing to self-isolate in his cell, using the sink to wash up for weeks instead of entering the shower room. “We’re both sick already,” M said of himself and his cellmate. “What’s the point?” M does not expect to be one of the people cleared for release by the state: He has several years left on a sentence he’s serving for a violent crime, he told me. Newsom and the CDCR are prioritizing the 4,800 people who are within 180 days of finishing their sentences for the first round of rolling releases by the end of July, and then those with a year or less left to serve who are living in high-risk prisons like San Quentin. People in jail for violent offenses and perpetrators of domestic abuse are not eligible for release. Newsom also directed the CDCR to identify high-risk prisoners who are immunocompromised or elderly to be released, and to speed up exits for people found eligible for parole. “If we’re just going to let them out without a proper safety net, they’re going to end up back there, or dead.” Activists have pushed for broadening the release criteria to include violent offenders and to commute more people who have proven they’re rehabilitated. “We want to protect victims of violent crime,” said the Prison Policy Initiative’s Bertram. “But not all violent crimes are the same.” You can be charged with a violent crime for abetting a murder but not perpetrating it, or fighting back against your abuser, for example. Raju, the San Francisco Public Defender, and Boudin, the San Francisco District Attorney, have joined with other advocacy groups to argue that releases should be done on an individualized basis, and according to “current and substantiated public safety risk” that may have changed after years in prison. Based on the CDCR’s risk assessment of recidivism in 2018, nearly half of California’s prison population have the lowest risk of reoffending. A January 2013 study of CDCR recidivism rates showed that only about 5 percent of lifer parolees were convicted of new crimes within three years of release, compared to those who fulfilled a determinate sentence; elderly ex-inmates are shown to have even lower rates of recidivism. “They’re getting considered based on what they’ve done, and not what they’ve done since,” said M. He says he’s earned a degree and several certificates while incarcerated but has years to go before he’s eligible for parole. Recidivism can be driven by factors more out of people’s control: Unemployment and housing discrimination against former inmates can drive people into homelessness or to substance abuse, a path that can lead back into the criminal justice system. “We expect people to come out and then become productive members of society, and we send them out the gate with $200, nowhere to go, and not enough services on the outside,” said the California Reentry Program’s Tata. “We keep punishing people who come out for the rest of their lives.” To be eligible for parole, people need to identify secure housing, and a plan to get there. Some lifers are routed into substance abuse treatment centers, or transitional housing; some are able to reunite with family directly. Non-lifers off on parole have more flexibility. To ensure a safe transition — that also limits the further spread of Covid — advocates say the CDCR should provide adequate and accessible housing to those who can’t find it themselves. Brie Williams, a professor of medicine at the University of California San Francisco, and Leann Bertsch, the director of the North Dakota Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, wrote a memo urging states and localities to increase funding for reentry programs, which were already struggling pre-Covid. “The public health imperative of depopulation during the Covid-19 pandemic reinforces the needs for greater societal investment in resources that give people the best chance for successful reintegration,” they wrote. “Public health focused decarceration and meaningful reentry services: the two must go together.” Tata put it even more starkly: “If we’re just going to let them out without a proper safety net, they’re going to end up back there, or dead,” she said. Add the threat of spreading coronavirus, and she sees a clear need to provide more housing options, at least for short-term isolation. Already, states have been sending some formerly incarcerated people into the scores of vacant hotels that had been repurposed for vulnerable unhoused populations: After leaving Riker’s Island, formerly incarcerated people at risk of homelessness were offered hotels in New York City; as part of Newsom’s March executive order allocating funding to purchase hotel rooms for unhoused Californians, recently released prisoners were offered space, too. As thousands more prisoners are released, the CDCR, the California Department of General Services (DGS) and the California Office of Emergency Services (OES) have launched a new hotel-housing program called Project Hope. No one who has an active case of coronavirus will be released early, the CDCR says — they’ll have to stay on-site or in hospitals until they recover and test negative. But those who are released on a natural or expedited timeline, and have tested positive or been exposed to coronavirus, will have the opportunity to move into hotel rooms if they don’t have another isolation plan ready. Staying there to finish out a quarantine period is voluntary, the CDCR stresses, because the department can’t legally hold anyone after their release. Sixty hotels in 30 counties are participating, the CDCR says; as of this week, 126 people  participated in the program, and 75 of them are currently being sheltered. P thinks he’s one of the first people formerly incarcerated at San Quentin to be transferred into one of the Project Hope hotel rooms. (He asked to be identified by a pseudonym.) This spring, he’d been cleared for parole and was awaiting Newsom’s signature, a process he was told would take five months. But in late June, he contracted a severe case of coronavirus, and was sent to Novato Community Hospital, where he was diagnosed with respiratory failure and given supplemental oxygen. For 10 days, he stayed there, gaining strength and getting rehab. Hours before he was cleared to be discharged from the hospital, he says, officers came to his room and asked if he wanted to be transferred to a hotel. “[They said] if I chose to be a part of the program called Project Hope and quarantine for two weeks that they’ll release me, then and there,” he said. He signed the contract. “About three hours later I went from being shackled to a hospital bed to being discharged into the parking lot in the city of Hayward. I was given a room key, and they basically said, ‘Good luck!’” When he got inside his room, he said he had a panic attack. “I didn’t have my property from San Quentin, all I had was my dress-outs  — my parole clothes,” he said. “It was a mixture of emotions. It was a joyous, yet it was a very frightening experience.” He says for the first few days, he got three meals a day — usually take-out from places like Jack In The Box or Denny’s — but since then it’s been inconsistent; he hasn’t had any nurses or medical staff come check on him. A CDCR spokesperson confirmed that the department and California Correctional Health Care Services “do not provide for the health care of an offender after their release”; instead, they provide Project Hope residents with “educational material that includes information about how to seek medical care while in the community.” After their quarantine period, residents can apply for a room through  Project Roomkey — a state program that provides hotel rooms for unhoused people — if they’re without secure housing. When P finishes his quarantine this week, he’ll go back to his family in San Bernardino. “My family is very supportive and has been since day one of incarceration,” he said. “If it wasn’t for them and volunteers and the friends that I've met along the way, I would be in far worse shape.” Meanwhile, inside San Quentin, M texts me. He says he feels better, like the virus is leaving his body. He, too has family members that are ready to take him in, he says, should he receive the commuted sentence that he’s praying for. “The best case scenario for me?” he said. “Freedom.” 