Child labor could be on the rise as world food demand falters, the latest ugly turn of the coronvirus pandemic. This week, both the International Coffee Organization and the International Cocoa Initiative warned of the dangers of child labor in major producing countries. With millions thrown out of work and economies slowing, poverty is increasing and hunger is getting worse. At the same time, lockdown conditions are cutting off migrant workers from farms the world over, creating some labor shortages. It’s a toxic combination that’s turning people toward desperate measures. A survey of 16 coffee-producing countries — representing 85% of world production — showed that as the pandemic cuts farmer profits, sustainable agriculture practices are under threat, the ICO said in a report. Households “struggling with uncertainty and diminishing income” may end up “out of necessity” reverting to “harmful coping measures, such as child labor,” the group said. Meanwhile, child labor is already increasing on the cocoa farms of Ivory Coast, the world’s top producer. Minors involved in growing the chocolate ingredient rose to 19.4% from from 16%, according to data released this week by the International Cocoa Initiative, which cited a survey of more than 1,400 households conducted from March 17 to May 15. That wasn’t the only ESG food news of the week. New data from investor network Fairr showed that carbon taxes could wipe more than $11 billion in profits from leading meat companies in the coming decades as governments look to curb the industry’s damage to the environment. Agriculture is second only to energy in contributions to global greenhouse gas emissions, and raising animals accounts for almost half the industry’s carbon footprint. Carbon taxes could end up cutting an amount equal to about 5% of revenue from the 40 leading meat companies’ earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by 2050. Meanwhile, crop traders are now taking steps to trace Brazilian soybeans after coming under fire for their role in the country’s environmental crisis that has spread from the Amazon rain forest to Cerrado savanna grasslands. Traceability could help to slow deforestation. Cofco International, the global trading arm of China’s biggest food company, took the boldest step. The company vowed full traceability for all the soybeans it buys directly from farmers in Brazil by 2023. That would be a first for a major crop trader. “ESG discussions have really intensified over the past few months,” said Peter van der Werf, an engagement specialist covering consumer staples at Robeco. “The focus of investors is really going deeper into these supply chains to bring more scrutiny, which companies need to respond to with much better ESG reporting.” —Millie Munshi in Denver Global food prices rose 2.4% in June, rebounding from a revised four-year low, as the reopening of economies helped many agricultural commodities. The gains in a United Nations gauge were led by a surge in vegetable oils and sugar as import demand improved and higher oil costs boosted biofuel consumption. Support also came from coronavirus-related supply issues, including port bottlenecks in Brazil and migrant labor shortages. Don’t keep it to yourself. Colleagues and friends can sign up here. We also publish Balance of Power, a daily briefing on the latest in global politics. For even more: Follow @economics on Twitter and subscribe to Bloomberg All Access for full global news coverage and two in-depth daily newsletters, The Bloomberg Open and The Bloomberg Close. How are we doing? We want to hear what you think about this newsletter. Let our trade tsar know. — With assistance by Manisha Jha, Leanne de Bassompierre, and Greg Ritchie