Tokyo joined Australia’s second-biggest state in posting record coronavirus cases as second waves spread in several hotspots and global infections topped 13.5 million. A group of world leaders issued a call for “solidarity” around the crisis, urging that an eventual vaccine should be distributed equitably to people of all nations and income levels. California’s surge continued, with the largest U.S. state reporting near-record increases in cases and deaths, while Los Angeles had record hospitalizations. Cases in the U.S. increased 2% to 3.47 million. Texas posted a record 10,791 new cases. Walmart Inc. will require customers to wear masks at its U.S. stores, joining other major retail chains, while Georgia Governor Brian Kemp banned cities and counties from ordering people to wear masks, Associated Press reported. Fewer Covid-19 patients are dying in intensive-care units, indicating that hospitals are getting better at treating severe forms of the disease. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike said more than 280 virus cases were confirmedThursday, a new record for the Japanese capital, broadcaster NHK reported. That’s up from 165 cases the previous day. Tokyo raised its alert level for coronavirus to the highest on a four-point scale Wednesday as authorities urged people to modify their behavior to prevent a further spread of infection. The city has struggled to get a handle on infections as it seeks to reopen its economy. Koike has urged residents to avoid stores that don’t meet guidelines designed to reduce the spread, but hasn’t called on businesses to close their doors. Australia’s second most populous state recorded its biggest spike in coronavirus cases Thursday, a week after it was placed into partial lockdown as it’s gripped by a second wave of infections. Victoria had 317 new cases in the past 24 hours, Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton told reporters. It’s the largest single-day increase for any of Australia’s states and territories, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Overall mortality of Covid-19 patients treated in intensive-care units fell to just under 42% at the end of May from almost 60% in March, according to the first systematic analysis of two dozen studies involving more than 10,000 patients in Asia, Europe and North America. The fast spread of SARS-CoV-2, high caseload and proportion of patients requiring breathing support placed “unprecedented demand” on ICU services, researchers wrote in a study published Wednesday in the journal Anaesthesia. Countries in the later phases of the pandemic may now be coping better, they said. Air Canada tried to persuade the government of Justin Trudeau to ease restrictions on travel, pointing to policy shifts in other nations where the Covid-19 pandemic has shown signs of improvement. In a letter to Transport Minister Marc Garneau and other cabinet members, the airline’s chief medical officer suggested loosening quarantine requirements through “a science-based approach” to strike a balance between economic and public health concerns. In following some countries in Europe and Asia, Canada would enable a “measured restart of aviation,” he said. Texas recorded its grimmest day yet with a record 110 Covid-19 deaths and almost 11,000 new cases, according to state health department data. The increase brought the Lone Star state’s death toll since the start of the pandemic to 3,432. Hospitalizations ticked down by less than 1% statewide for just the second daily decline since late June, state figures showed. Reporting lags continued to bedevil efforts to assess the outbreak’s trajectory. Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said in tweets that some fatalities reported on Wednesday occurred as long ago as early May. Eight world leaders including President Sahle-Work Zewde of Ethiopia and Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven issued a call for “global solidarity” for fairness in distributing any Covid-19 vaccine that may be developed. Supplies of a vaccine should be shared fairly among all nations and people of all income levels, the leaders said in an opinion piece published in the Washington Post. An organized global flow of vaccines will require “mutual trust, transparency and accountability” among nations, they said. Watch: Johns Hopkins Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine Lauren Sauer discusses the state of the public health infrastructure in the U.S., the Covid-19 fatality rate, and positive signs seen on vaccine trials. (Source: Bloomberg) Also signing the statement were prime ministers Justin Trudeau of Canada; New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern; Pedro Sanchez of Spain and Tunisia’s Elyes Fakhfakh, who later resigned; as well as presidents Moon Jae-in of South Korea and Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa. The international community must commit to equitable access to a COVID-19 vaccine. Writing together with @JustinTrudeau, @SahleWorkZewde, @moonriver365, @jacindaardern, @CyrilRamaphosa, @sanchezcastejon & @ElyesFakhfakh @washingtonpost https://t.co/756yZtTqEW New coronavirus cases and deaths in California surged to near-record highs, as the pandemic rebounds in the biggest U.S. state. California recorded 11,126 new cases, the second-highest one-day tally, while the 14-day rolling average rose to 7,927. It reported 140 more deaths, bringing the 14-day average to 83. The pandemic has killed 7,227 people in the state so far. The number of Californians hospitalized with Covid-19 rose to a record 6,786, an increase of 41 patients from the previous day. The worsening outbreak this week prompted Governor Gavin Newsom to order indoor dining and bars statewide to close for a second time. In the worst-hit counties, he ordered gyms, hair salons and churches to stop all indoor operations. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 2% as compared with the same time Tuesday to 3.47 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase matched the average gain over the past week. Deaths rose 0.6% to 136,940. Ireland will delay the next stage of reopening its economy to Aug. 10 from July 20, Prime Minister Micheal Martin said, as it grapples with a rise in new coronavirus cases and an increase in the so-called reproduction rate above 1. Bars that don’t serve food and nightclubs will remain closed until Aug. 10, while face coverings will be mandatory in shops and malls. In response to concerns about house parties, the government will limit the number of visitors to homes, while international travel continues to be discouraged. Ireland saw its highest number of new cases in a month on Tuesday. The health ministry reported 14 more cases and two deaths on Wednesday. So far, Ireland has had 25,683 cases, with 1,748 deaths. Watch: Prime Minister Boris Johnson, in response to questions from opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer, defends the U.K. track-and-trace system, saying he is taking the necessary steps to avoid a second wave of Covid-19. (Source: Bloomberg) The Lancet medical journal on Monday will publish data on a potential coronavirus vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca Plc and University of Oxford researchers, Sky News said on Twitter. Earlier, ITV reported that “positive news is coming” on initial trials, sending AstraZeneca shares higher. The Lancet Medical Journal plans to publish phase 1 of clinical trial data on Oxford University Covid-19 vaccine on Monday 20 July Walmart Inc. will require customers to wear masks in all of its U.S. stores to protect against the coronavirus, an admission that the nation’s pandemic has reached new heights and setting up potential confrontations with customers who refuse to don them. The measure will go into effect starting July 20, U.S. Chief Operating Officer Dacona Smith said in a blog post Wednesday. Walmart’s decision follows similar moves by Costco Wholesale Corp., Starbucks Corp. and Best Buy Co. An aging cholesterol medication showed it can interfere with the virus’s ability to reproduce, according to early lab research. The drug, called fenofibrate and sold under brand names such as Tricor and Lipofen, allows lung cells to burn more fat, breaking the virus’s grip, a team from Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Mount Sinai’s Icahn School of Medicine in New York found. Their research is under review by the medical journal Cell Metabolism. The scientists established that the new virus prevents the routine burning of carbohydrates, allowing fat to accumulate inside lung cells, which may help explain why patients with high blood sugar and cholesterol appear more at risk of developing severe disease. The Trump administration is distancing itself from a senior adviser’s critique of Fauci, the immunologist who has delivered warnings about the coronavirus’s resurgence as the president pushes to reopen. Peter Navarro, the White House’s director for the Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy, wrote an op-ed published in USA Today, criticizing Fauci. Navarro also had earlier sent a similar statement to CBS. Watch: President Donald Trump says he has a very good relationship with Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert, despite evidence of a growing rift between the two men as coronavirus cases surge in several states. (Source: Bloomberg) The statement was not signed off on by the White House communications office, according to Alyssa Farah, the White House’s director of strategic communications. Navarro was speaking for himself, Farah said Wednesday. The Peter Navarro op-ed didn’t go through normal White House clearance processes and is the opinion of Peter alone. @realDonaldTrump values the expertise of the medical professionals advising his Administration. “Positive news is coming” on initial trials of the Covid-19 vaccine that the University of Oxford is developing with AstraZeneca Plc, ITV’s Robert Peston said in a tweet, without specifying how he obtained the information. Shares in AstraZeneca rose as much as 4% in London. “The vaccine is generating the kind of antibody and T-cell (killer cell) response that the researchers would hope to see,” Peston wrote, adding that details will be released soon in medical journal The Lancet. Oxford’s vaccine trial -- led by Sarah Gilbert, who is profiled this week in Bloomberg Businessweek -- is already undergoing phase III testing in Brazil. The trial shot is seen as being months ahead of other key candidates. Positive news is coming on Oxford Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccine is generating the kind of antibody and T-cell (killer cell) response that the researchers would hope to see, I understand. Details soon in ⁦⁦@TheLancet⁩  https://t.co/7guw9TIbX9 — With assistance by Dan Reichl, David R Baker, and Mark Schoifet