(The following is the third of a three-part essay on the overlapping crises that are impacting America’s cities. This installment examines the factors that will act to reshape them. Read part one and  part two here.) While our current pandemic and the economic fallout from it won’t lead to the end of cities, these intertwined crises will lead to subtle and nuanced changes in both urban and suburban America, mainly accelerating demographic and economic shifts that were already underway. One set of forces, enabled mainly by newly acquired fears of crowded buses, trains, stores and parks—a kind of collective enochlophobia—will act to pull some people, mainly families with children, out of urban centers and into their suburban and rural peripheries. This is nothing new: Families have been gravitating away from the most expensive cities for some time now. The crisis will also activate another set of forces that will push other groups of people and businesses toward the urban center. Cities will get even younger as urban centers become more affordable. The precise weighting of these two forces cannot be predicted, but will turn on how severe and long-lasting the current crises turn out to be. If they are short-lived, most of the changes in cities and urban areas will be fleeting. But if the coronavirus and its related economic, fiscal and social upheaval continues over a protracted period of two or three years or more, the changes will go deeper. As history demonstrates, the main effects will be to accelerate shifts already underway in how we live and work. Most of all the intertwined crises of urban America and the political movement that has grown up around them and in their wake create a powerful resetting moment when it is possible to remake our cities, suburbs and entire metropolitan areas as more just, inclusive and resilient places. There is no doubt that the current crises have impelled some, particularly families with young children and also the old and the vulnerable, to decamp to the suburbs or even rural communities. For families, fear of Covid-19 has put a premium on private amenities like backyards and home offices, while reducing the appeal of more public amenities like parks or even restaurants, theaters, galleries and museums found in urban centers. Parents understandably want to avoid exposing their children to the virus via public playgrounds. Streaming a movie with family has become more appealing than sitting in a movie theater with strangers. Having a few trusted friends over for a backyard barbecue seems much more desirable than a crowded or even a socially distanced restaurant. Working out of a spare bedroom is much safer than heading to a downtown office building or co-working space. All of these desires can be far more easily satisfied in the suburbs, and almost always for a lot less money than in urban neighborhoods like Tribeca, Park Slope, Nob Hill, Georgetown or Beacon Hill. There is likely to be an uptick in rural gentrification as well, especially to smaller cities like Hudson, New York, that have lots of natural amenities and lovely main streets, but are still within a few hours of driving from a major urban center. Population growth by type of place Source: Jed Kolko's analysis of U.S. Census Bureau numbers  Indeed, the migration of families from superstar cities to suburbs and less expensive metros was well underway before the virus and its related crises struck. As the Brookings Institute demographer William Frey has documented, the growth of hyper-expensive cities like New York and San Francisco had begun to reverse over the past five years, as people began heading to smaller metros, suburbs, and rural areas in search of more affordability. What the current crises have done is accelerate this process, compressing family-formation moves that would have been made anyway over the next several years into one or two months. And Covid-19 is not the first significant health crisis that has accelerated the shift of Americans with families to the suburbs. The period immediately following the Spanish Flu was one of rapid suburbanization. Not all of that shift can be pegged on that pandemic: It was also catalyzed by the rise of a powerful new technology, the automobile. This suburban orientation of families is much more of an American phenomenon. The family-unfriendliness of American cities is a well-documented product of highly unequal locally funded urban schools, high levels of racial and economic segregation, and the perception of higher levels of urban crime, not to mention the high costs of housing. I can see and feel the difference in my day-to-day life in Toronto where my wife and I are raising two young kids. Toronto is no utopia: Housing is expensive, and the city, while diverse, suffers from considerable racial and class segmentation. But it is a far more family-friendly place than most U.S. cities, and for a wider range of residents across race, ethnicity and class. Provincially funded urban schools provide more equal opportunity; neighborhoods are generally safe; and a more extensive safety and universal health coverage means there is less abject poverty and a higher level of social cohesion. Fear of transit may also keep some offices and jobs in the suburbs for an interim period, temporarily slowing the shift in corporate locations from suburban campuses to central city business districts. States like New Jersey and Connecticut may be able to recapture some of the knowledge jobs they lost to New York, Philadelphia and Boston by repurposing older office parks or even defunct malls as regional office centers, at least for a while. That said, the fear of transit may also diminish the appeal of some of America’s best and most-beloved communities—older, close-in suburbs located on train or transit lines, like Newton, Massachusetts, outside Boston, Bryn Mawr and other towns along Philadelphia’s Main Line, and Montclair and Maplewood in New Jersey. Their ease of commuting to downtown business districts will no longer be as appealing as it was before the pandemic. Remote work is another pull factor that will cause some to disperse from cities. While the need for social distancing meant that virtually every knowledge and professional worker had to work from home during the height of the crisis, the shift to remote work has also been going on for some time. More than a decade ago, back in 2010, the U.S. Census Bureau reported that some 7% of U.S. workers worked largely out of their homes, and that 10% or so worked from home one day a week. Today, roughly 40% of jobs can be done remotely. Not all the people who work from home now will continue to do so. Many people like the camaraderie of office mates; others want to avoid distractions; young people with roommates don’t have the space for a separate home office. But a larger fraction of remote work is likely to stick. As much as a fifth of the workforce may continue to work remotely after the crisis, according to a recent survey of hiring managers by Adam Ozimek, chief economist of Upwork, a website that connects companies with remote professionals. Not only do a significant number of workers prefer working from home, corporations will benefit from the cost savings that come from consuming less office space. In the medium run, the streets and highways in cities like New York, Chicago, and Toronto, where a larger share of commuters use trains and transit, could become completely gridlocked as more people drive to work. Hiring managers surveyed believe work will stay more remote as a result of Covid-19 Source: The future of remote work, by Adam Ozimek  The ability to work remotely enables a larger number of people to move from expensive coastal cities to more affordable cities and metropolitan areas across the country. This creates a window of opportunity for smaller cities looking to attract talent. They can pitch remote workers on a higher quality of life, more space and home ownership, something that is out of reach in places like New York, Boston, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. In my work with the George Kaiser Family Foundation, I have personally seen the success of an initiative called Tulsa Remote in bringing this kind of talent to Tulsa, Oklahoma. The project offers modest financial incentives to technology and other remote workers who choose to live and work there. More importantly, it helps them find affordable housing and office space and gives them opportunities to connect with other remote workers and become a part of the broader community. So far, it has attracted tens of thousands of applications. In my visits to Tulsa, I have met people who have relocated from cities like New York, Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Dallas and Atlanta. A later phase of the project envisions working with established tech companies to attract larger groups or cohorts of their workers who desire a less hectic and more affordable life. Attracting remote workers is a more cost-effective way for smaller communities to build up their economies, certainly when compared with throwing away taxpayer dollars to try to lure factories, offices, call centers or even headquarters. Remote workers not only add to both the talent base and tax base, they also diversify the local economy because they aren't dependent on companies and jobs in close proximity. The dispersal of people and jobs may be further accelerated by the fiscal impacts of the crisis on city budgets and services. High unemployment, falling incomes, closed offices, small business failures, and falling real estate values will lead to a significant deterioration of city revenues. Mayors and urban leaders will face the difficult and unenviable choice of raising taxes or cutting back on essential services. Depending on how serious this becomes, and the steps cities take to cope with it, the combination of higher tax burdens and cutbacks in urban service could create an additional set of pressures for residents and businesses to relocate. But, another set of factors will act in the opposite direction, pushing some people, some industries and some jobs back toward urban centers. Worsening traffic congestion will limit the appeal and even the viability of suburban life for some. Shorter commutes have been a big factor behind the back-to-the city movement to begin with. Cities will get younger. As families with children, the elderly and the vulnerable decamp from urban centers, more opportunity and literally more space will open up for younger people. This too is an acceleration of another ongoing trend—one that urbanists have actually dubbed “youthification.” While cities have always attracted the young and the ambitious, the movement of educated young people to the urban center has accelerated considerably over the past decade or so, according to a detailed study by Joe Cortright of City Observatory. Cortright finds that college-educated young people between the ages of 25 and 34 accounted for about half the population increases in close-in urban neighborhoods within three miles of the city center since 2010. And cities tend to get younger in the wake of pandemics. This is what happened in the wake of the Spanish Flu, and for that matter, all the way back in the Middle Ages after incursions of the Black Plague. Young people in all eras have been willing to risk the hazards of urban life for the economic opportunities they offer, not to mention adventure they provide and the ability to find friends and romantic partners. Some already-pricey urban neighborhoods in and around downtown business districts may well become more hotly desired, even as others further out on transit lines see their values fall. Professional workers who need to be near the banks, hedge funds, and high-tech firms they work at will feel much safer walking or biking to the office than taking transit. Apartments in New York neighborhoods like Soho and Tribeca that are close to the financial district; Union Square, the Flatiron district, and Chelsea that make up the city’s Silicon Alley; and the parts of the Upper West and East sides that are closest to midtown will increase in value. This is yet another acceleration, of the movement of the affluent, ambitious, and advantaged not just to cities per se but to premier downtown urban districts. Urban downtowns grew significantly faster than surrounding suburbs in the first two decades of the twenty-first century, according to a recently released Brookings study. This is especially true of downtowns in metros with more than one million people, which encompasses a diverse set of metros such as Chicago, Seattle, Denver, Minneapolis, Miami, Dallas, Charlotte, Kansas City and St. Louis. So, while the suburbs grew faster than cities during this period, downtown areas grew faster still. Balancing out these various pull and push factors is difficult to do in advance. But the evidence we do suggests that there is little reason to fear a massive movement of people out of cities, over and above shifts that have been occurring anyway. An analysis by the real estate analytics firm Zillow found little appreciable difference in housing searches for urban and suburban homes conducted in April 2020 compared to those conducted a year earlier in April 2019. Out-of-town searches increased significantly in a small number of places, including New York, Detroit, and Boston, all of them major epicenters of the crisis. In New York and Boston, the rise was roughly 5 percentage points. Hyper-expensive San Jose in the heart of Silicon Valley had a larger increase of roughly 10 percentage points, and Detroit saw a gain of 15 percentage points. But, across the nation as a whole, the share of out-of-town searches did not budge. Nationally, the share of people looking for homes in the suburbs of their own metro areas declined, while the share of searches in urban areas actually rose. Indeed, the share of searches for urban locations increased in 8 out of 10 of the nation’s 35 largest metro areas. On the question of a potential urban exodus, the report provides a pretty definitive answer: “Will a new fear of density cause people to flee urban cores for more spread-out suburbs or rural areas? So far, Zillow data suggest the answer is ‘No.’” Here it is important not to conflate two separate trends acting on cities: the dispersal of families and the continued clustering and concentration of key industries in urban centers. The two are more mutually reinforcing than contradictory. Many, if not most, of the people who move to the suburbs or even to other metros will continue to work for companies that are headquartered in leading urban centers. Ironically, any outward shift of people, due to preferences or remote work, may end up strengthening the hold of superstar cities and tech hubs on key industries, simply because it will take pressure off their massively swollen real estate markets. While the prized talent who are employed in those key industries are paid more than enough to compensate for the exorbitant costs of housing, the rest of the workforce and population have no such luck; many have been forced to move out. This is one of the main reasons economists have bemoaned the restrictive land use policies that have limited the further development of housing in cities like San Francisco and New York. It’s not just that such restrictions drive up the cost of housing, though that has been an all too real consequence. But in doing so, they limit the ability of these cities to expand their innovative industries, at a substantial cost to them and to the U.S. economy as a whole. For most of history, cities had scant amenity value. In fact, the dis-amenities of cramped and dirty living conditions and the greater risks of infectious disease and violence far outweighed any amenity values they might provide. When all is said and done, the current crises may help set the stage for a revival of expensive and unaffordable superstar cities. Real estate prices and the cost of urban space will likely decline, perhaps precipitously as demand for offices, retail space, and luxury real estate sags. For a time, once-pricey urban areas may become considerably more affordable for those who had been priced out, particularly young people and artistic creatives. As I mentioned in the previous installment, the carnage to restaurants, cafes, local shops, art galleries and music venues will be tragic, but there will be a window of time when cities can reset their local economies and reenergize their creative scenes. With no big-ticket concerts—no Taylor Swift or Rolling Stones shows, no Bonnaroos or Lollapaloozas, and no professional sports events with fans in the stands for a while—there will be increased demand for smaller-scale, locally-sourced arts and culture. Derek Thompson of The Atlantic compares this coming urban reset to the effects of a forest fire that “rages through the underbrush” leaving what looks to be “death and ruin,” but eventually as new light streams in, sets in motion a renewed cycle of growth. The decline in commercial real estate and in chain and luxury retail creates an even more powerful resetting opportunity for cities. In the wake of 9-11, Lower Manhattan radically increased its share of residential buildings; today, more than a quarter of those that work there live in the neighborhood, transforming that once work-only 9-to-5 district into a mixed used 24-7 community. The problem of course is that the neighborhood, like so many other districts in and around urban downtowns, is expensive and unaffordable to most. Cities must step up and put in place intentional policies and strategies to convert over-built and redundant office and retail space to affordable housing, perhaps by using tools like inclusionary zoning, which mandate that a certain percentage of housing built or converted is made available as affordable housing. With appropriate policies and intentional action, this new urban reset affords the opportunity to rebuild our cities into places that are both more inclusive and more productive.  Economists divide the value proposition of cities into two buckets. The first revolves around their productivity, which as we have seen is powered by the clustering of talent and knowledge in dense spaces. The second is their amenity value, the value people, particularly affluent people, place on access to world-class art, culture, and food. In recent years, the amenity value of cities has encroached upon and quite literally undermined their productivity value, as high-end amenities and high-end amenity seekers have taken over larger and larger parts of leading urban centers, creating the deadened luxury neighborhoods and luxury cities of today. For most of history, cities had scant amenity value. In fact, the dis-amenities of cramped and dirty living conditions and the greater risks of infectious disease and violence far outweighed any amenity values they might provide. This was the reason employers in urban areas paid their workers higher wages. The current crises facing cities are likely to tilt the balance back the other way, accomplishing what mayors and urban leaders have thus far been unable to—making overpriced cities both more affordable and more functional, bolstering their innovation and productivity, and enabling them to create more and better jobs. Indeed, the crisis hands us a once in a lifetime opportunity to rethink the functions and operations not just of cities but of entire metropolitan areas. With more people working from home and the need to limit or stagger commutes, it becomes possible to begin the long overdue process of transforming suburbs into more livable mixed-use communities, by repurposing dead malls and old suburban office complexes into the equivalent of town centers. There is no reason why millions of people must get on cars, trains or transit and commute from far-flung suburbs into the central business district every day. In fact, the rise of work from home shows that this acute separation of work from living is an increasingly outmoded, expensive and unproductive legacy of the industrial age. The modern central business district with its giant office towers stacking knowledge workers and service support workers is one of the last holdovers of the from this era—a relic of a time when office workers needed to be massed together and skyscrapers stood as the physical manifestation of the all-powerful mega-corporation. High-end retail districts stand as physical symbols of the hyper-gentrified luxury city of the one percent which is why they have been targeted by the recent wave of protest and urban unrest. The shift to remote work creates the opportunity to remake cities, suburbs and entire metropolitan areas away from the industrial age model of separate zones for working, living and shopping. Places can become what urbanists call 15-minute neighborhoods, where all of these functions are present, reducing commutes and taking huge numbers of cars off our streets and highways, while making our cities more affordable and inclusive. Combined with the wave of protests demanding racial justice, we may be approaching a critical moment when it is possible to address the deep economic and racial divides that have long vexed our society and to remake our cities to be more equitable, inclusive and resilient places. Shame on us if we fail to capitalize on this opportunity.  — With assistance by Marie Patino