Asian stocks saw modest gains Thursday after positive vaccine developments and U.S. data tempered concern over a jump in coronavirus cases. Treasuries and the dollar held losses. Shares edged higher in Hong Kong despite the recent tensions over China’s new national security law over the city. Australia and South Korea also rose. Tokyo gains faded on reduced volumes. Shanghai saw a muted open. U.S. futures were little changed after the S&P 500 rose for a third day and the Nasdaq Composite jumped to a record. An early trial of an experimental shot from Pfizer Inc. and BioNtech SE showed it was safe, and prompted patients to produce antibodies. Meantime, U.S. House of Representatives passed by unanimous consent a bill imposing sanctions on banks that do business with Chinese officials involved in cracking down on pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong. Relations between Washington and Beijing have soured badly in the months since the “phase one” trade deal was signed in January, while the coronavirus pandemic made many of its elements moot. Traders also monitored minutes of the Federal Reserve’s June meeting, which revealed that various participants viewed the economy needing support “for some time.” A closely watched measure of manufacturing jumped in June to the highest in more than a year. On the virus front, California and Arizona reported their biggest daily case increases and Houston’s intensive-care units exceeded full capacity. “There’s this inherent tension between health of the economy and health of the population,” said David Lebovitz, a global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management. “It’s going to be the way to think about what drives markets over the next couple of weeks or months.” Elsewhere, oil slipped as traders weighed ongoing concerns about the spread of coronavirus across the U.S. south against a strong drawdown in crude stockpiles. Here are some key events coming up: Robert Tipp, chief investment strategist at PGIM Fixed Income, talks about his outlook for fixed income and the yield curve. Source: Bloomberg These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sarah Ponczek, and Rita Nazareth