Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Spain’s tourism industry is at increasing risk of being shut down as countries across Europe seek to restrict visits to the Mediterranean nation, following an order by the British government to quarantine visitors. A steady increase in new infections in Spain last week pushed Boris Johnson’s government on Saturday to order a 14-day quarantine for all travelers from Spain. Other European countries, including Belgium, France and Norway, have also begun advising against visits to certain areas in Spain, and more restrictions could be coming. The increase in new cases is “definitely an issue” for Germany too, Berlin’s Health Minister Dilek Kalayci said in an interview Monday with ZDF television. Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez’s government downplayed the trends as it sought to protect a sector that accounts for 12% of the country’s economy “Spain is a safe country,” Foreign Minister  Arancha Gonzalez Laya said Sunday. “Spain has outbreaks. As do other countries. What’s important is that Spain is making great efforts to control these outbreaks.” Beachgoers relax on the sand at Barceloneta beach in Barcelona. Photographer: Angel Garcia/Bloomberg But the risks are becoming all too real in Catalonia, where the regional government sounded the alarm as it seeks to contain the spread. Over the weekend, authorities put restrictions on nightlife, shutting clubs and requiring bars to close at midnight. “I wouldn’t make an appearance like this nor a call like this is if the situation weren’t critical, if the evolution of the data weren’t highly concerning,” Catalan’s President Joaquim Torra said Monday at a press conference. Still, Catalonia is safe for tourists, he said. Airline and other travel industry stocks plunged. The Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure Index dropped as much as 3.6% earlier, the most in about a month. EasyJet Plc was down 14%, while British Airways parent IAG SA fell 10% and Ryanair Holdings Plc slid 9%. The U.K. order caught Spain’s hotel and restaurant sector by surprise, according to Jose Luis Yzuel, head of the Spanish hostelry association. “It’s a major blow,” Yzuel said in an interview. “The outlook was already bad,” and the order means there will probably be tens of thousands fewer British tourists, he said. The U.K.’s decision creates a tense standoff between two countries that need each other. Both their economies are tanking during critical summer months when people are finally emerging from lockdown and ready to spend. U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab defended the government’s actions in an interview with Sky News on Sunday: “We took the decision as swiftly as we could, and we cannot make apologies for doing so.” Taking action was important, “otherwise we risk re-infection into the U.K., potentially a second wave here and another lockdown,” he said. The U.K. is critical to the Spanish economy -- many of its pensioners have retired along the country’s Mediterranean coast, and British sun-seekers account for 20% of Spain’s overall visitors. The tension takes place against a backdrop of Brexit, with the U.K. negotiating its future relationship with the European Union. Read more: Second Virus Wave Is Real, But Lockdown Is Now Nuclear Option The shock British travel ruling was prompted by new virus cases spiking in Spain’s Catalonia region, home to Barcelona and Costa Brava beaches. Hard-hit airlines relying on those flights to stay afloat are angry at measures they see as overly broad. “We are disappointed that the government has decided to impose a quarantine requirement for those traveling from the whole of Spain since the increased occurrence of coronavirus is regional rather than nationwide,” EasyJet said in a statement Sunday. The decision “throws thousands of Britons’ travel plans into chaos.” España es un país seguro para el turismo. El Ejecutivo trabaja con los gobiernos europeos para explicar las medidas que se están llevando a cabo y trasladar un mensaje de confianza.Los brotes están controlados y las CC.AA. están aplicando todos los protocolos ante el #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/iVsRVnSt4G British Airways said it’s “​yet another blow for British holidaymakers and cannot fail to have an impact on an already-troubled aviation industry.” “Uncertainty and confusion is damaging for business and disappointing for those looking forward to a well-deserved break,” Andrew Flintham, managing director at TUI AG’s U.K. and Irish operations, said in a statement. Ryanair called the new rule “regrettable.” Europe’s biggest discount carrier on Monday posted a 185 million-euro ($217 million) quarterly loss and said a potential second wave is the company’s biggest fear. “There are going to be localized breakouts in my view across Europe,” Chief Financial Officer Neil Sorahan said in an interview. “You’re going to see areas opening up, areas closing down and that’s where flexibility is going to be hugely important for ourselves and other airlines.” Ryanair Says Second Virus Wave Is Worst Fear as Losses Mount Spain is now focusing on damage control. Gonzalez Laya said the country is working with the U.K. government to create air corridors for tourists to the Balearic Islands, home to the popular vacation destinations of Ibiza and Mallorca, as well as the Canary islands. More than 40% of the 3.65 million seats that airlines have scheduled from the U.K. to Spain in August and September are flying to the Spanish islands, according to Carlos Cendra of Spanish travel analytics firm Mabrian Technologies. The surprise quarantine announcement by the British government exacerbates the uncertainty holiday-seekers face and many in the U.K. and elsewhere could decide to stay home rather than run the risk of future cancellations, Cendra said.“The virus is everywhere, and the virus will move when it gets the opportunity to move,” Mike Ryan, head of the World Health Organization’s emergencies program, said at a press briefing Monday. “It’s difficult to get travel measures absolutely right.” — With assistance by Christopher Jasper, and Corinne Gretler