The recovery is afoot in the world’s advanced economies, yet the pace of progress has varied as several European nations make greater strides bouncing back from pandemic-related lockdowns than the U.S., U.K. and Japan. Covid-19 remains a hurdle for the global economy as efforts to develop a vaccine continue. The pandemic is prompting a shift in consumer spending habits in the U.S.. It also poses a greater risk to workers in Spain and leaves the U.K. faced with its worst budget gap since World War II. Here are some of the charts that appeared on Bloomberg this week, offering insight into the latest developments in the global economy: The recovery trend for most major advanced economies continues Sources: Bloomberg Economics, Apple, Google, Moovitapp.com, German Statistical Office, BloombergNEF, Indeed.com, Shoppertrak.com, Opportunity Insight  The recovery for most major advanced economies continues at a rapid pace but few have approached pre-virus levels of activity, and divergence between countries has increased, according to Bloomberg Economics’ daily activity gauges. Spending seen rising, with electronics making up for drop in apparel sales Source: Deloitte calculations based on annual consumer survey projections and revised U.S. current population surveys Note: Personal hygiene and desk/table category new addition this year More than a quarter of parents are unsure when they’ll do their back-to-school shopping this year, according to a survey from Deloitte LLP. When they do shop, virtual classes due to the Covid-19 outbreak mean that 40% of parents expect to buy fewer traditional school supplies and instead more technology products such as computers. Northeastern states predominately saw the sharpest GDP contractions Bureau of Economic Analysis Note: Data as of the first quarter of 2020 The economies of all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia contracted in the first quarter of 2020, even before the full effects of the pandemic took hold. Both New York, which is heavily tied to financial services, and hospitality-dependent Nevada contracted more than an 8% annualized rate. The nexus of power at the Federal Reserve sits with its seven-member Board of Governors, who are based in Washington. Currently they are all White, including two women. Leadership at the Fed’s 12 regional banks have become more diverse recently, but only slightly. Spanish workers face the highest risk of coronavirus infection in OECD Source: OECD Employment Outlook based on Basso et al data Note: Estimates based on 2018 data. Jobs that can't be done from home and entail physical proximity and interaction with colleagues, customers or public. U.S. (not shown) has 48.1% Spaniards face the greatest risk of contracting SARS-CoV-2 in the workplace, according to figures published in the latest OECD Employment Outlook. Britain’s fiscal deficit is on course to hit $440 billion this year Source: Office for Budget Responsibility, Resolution Foundation forecast Note: Fiscal years starting April Britain is on course to borrow an unprecedented 350 billion pounds ($442 billion) in the current fiscal year after Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak announced a stimulus package to revive the coronavirus-battered economy. It would mean a budget deficit of about 17% of GDP, the highest since World War II. Analysts are back to expecting no major action from the BOJ Source: Bloomberg survey  Most economists expect the Bank of Japan to leave its main policy settings unchanged at next week’s meeting and through the rest of the year. India's top states have broadly stuck to fiscal targets Sources: Reserve Bank of India, Bloomberg Economics Note: Deficit ratios are derived using a four-year moving average of data published in the central bank’s annual report on state finances. India’s soaring coronavirus numbers are threatening its economic recovery and sharpening differences between states and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s federal government. The main leg of the International Monetary Fund and G-20 response to the coronavirus pandemic in Africa has been a debt-interest moratorium. While this a quick way to free up fiscal resources, it’s a poorly targeted method of distributing aid because it supports the most indebted nations, not those worst affected by the Covid-19 crisis, according to Bloomberg Economics. FX rate weakens on black market Lebaneselira.org/Bloomberg  Lebanon is seeking to protect more of its economy from the dramatic depreciation in the local currency, fixing a subsidized exchange rate for imported food after deeming a wholesale abandonment of the decades-old peg too costly for now. — With assistance by Andrew Atkinson, Archana Chaudhary, Toru Fujioka, David Goodman, Ainhoa Goyeneche, Jordyn Holman, Drew Hutchinson, Dana Khraiche, Cynthia Li, Steve Matthews, Dave Merrill, Catarina Saraiva, Shwetha Sunil, Alexandre Tanzi, Boingotlo Gasealahwe, and Bjorn Van Roye