Play ball: Bat boy Chris Cundiff of the Boston Red Sox wears a mask during the third inning of a game against the Baltimore Orioles on July 25 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts. The long-awaited return of live baseball may be brief. On Sunday, the Florida Marlins delayed their return to Miami from their opening series in Philadelphia due to a Covid-19 outbreak. At least 13 people with the organization have tested positive, and several games have been postponed. Other teams, including the Yankees, Reds and Red Sox, have also had players test positive for the virus; Major League Baseball’s pandemic-shortened 60-game season is only days old, but it may already be in peril. For the moment, however, it’s time to play ball. The league is hoping that sports-starved fans will be willing to overlook the many adaptations that the coronavirus has brought to America’s Pastime — empty ballparks, cardboard fans, teleworking commentators, and piped-in crowd noises (lifted from the video game MLB: The Show) that accompany even routine plays. Strong television ratings on Opening Day suggest that Americans are indeed eager for any glimmer of normalcy amid economic crisis, social unrest, and Covid-19 fears. But the game itself offers no escape: Like every other activity in daily life, the visual landscape of baseball has been remade by the contagion, from the panorama of vacant seats to the masks on coaches, umpires and sometimes players. Unlike pro basketball, whose restart scheme involved isolating players and staff from NBA teams inside a “bubble” in Orlando to play all their games, MLB’s reopening has teams traveling to ply their trade in stadiums around the country. (The Toronto Blue Jays are slated to play their home games in Buffalo’s Sahlen Field, a triple-A minor league park, because the Canadian government refused to allow teams to play in Toronto.) That sets up a singularly bizarre spectacle: America’s great cathedrals of baseball, many having been recently reconceived at great cost as urban redevelopment engines and downtown attractions, now serving as Zoom backdrops for on-screen entertainment. Baseball under these eerie and circumscribed conditions is better than no baseball at all. Ballparks old and new spark romance because of the peculiarities of their shape and dimension, whether it’s Wrigley Field’s ivy-covered walls, Fenway’s iconic Green Monster or the Crawford Boxes looming over the outfield in Houston’s Minute Maid Park. But framed on television, the empty seats resolve into a blur that belies the uniqueness of each park. This raises the question of what a ballpark should look like, and what function it serves in a society that is needfully sequestered. What legacy do ballparks leave if mass gatherings become a more long-term casualty of the pandemic? In his new book  Ballpark: Baseball in the American City, architecture critic Paul Goldberger notes in passing that despite baseball’s love affair with the baseball park, without the welter and bustle of fans, the edifices themselves generally aren’t much to look at. “Most of the best ballparks have not, in fact, been particularly memorable pieces of architecture by any formal standard: they are irregular, opportunistic structures, often altered and adjusted over the years to respond to changing market demands and changing urban conditions,” Goldberger writes. The pandemic hit just as the trend toward the retro-style, nostalgic bandbox that integrated into the urban scheme — think Camden Yards in Baltimore — began to fade. Increasingly, teams see stadiums as anchors of urban malls. Goldberger points to recent building projects and facility upgrades by the Chicago Cubs, St. Louis Cardinals and Texas Rangers as examples of how teams are looking to exert control over and extract revenue from the surrounding neighborhoods. The Atlanta Braves — that rare modern team, as Goldberger notes,  to relocate out of a center city — abandoned a stadium that was all of 20 years old in favor of a $1.1 billion suburban ballpark now known as Truist Park, including $672 million for the park and more than $450 million for the Battery Atlanta, a mixed-use live-work-play development that includes retail, restaurants, offices and housing. The goal of that kind of baseball-themed entertainment complex, Goldberger writes, is “to enable teams not just to earn income from restaurants and bars and retail shops outside the ballpark gates, but to manage as much of the environment around the ballpark as they possibly can, to determine what uses team management wants to see there and what kinds of buildings will contain them.” At the Battery, for example, Braves fans can shop, see a concert, have a spa day, walk to work, or rent an apartment. Going to a baseball game is just one option among many attractions. Even before Covid-19 sent them all home, live fans have been playing a smaller role in baseball’s bottom line. Attendance has been in decline since 2012 and is off about 14% from a high-water mark of 2007, when almost 80 million people were in the seats across the 30 MLB ballparks. As of last season, at least 18 teams were offering fans low-cost monthly subscription deals on standing-room or cheap-seat tickets, in part because they decided that getting bodies in the stands was critical to projecting a positive vibe into the TV, tablet and phone screens where club owners make their real money. But with no fans in the seats at all, it’s not just gate receipts that suffer. Clubs also lose out on revenue from food and beverage sales, merchandise and parking fees. So with a 60-game regular season, a looming labor crisis, and no end in sight for the pandemic, sports-business gurus are anticipating a drop in the value of baseball brands that could deflate sale prices for any franchises that change hands in the near term. Offers for the New York Mets have  slipped from a peak of $2.6 billion to around $2 billion, according to recent reporting in Bloomberg, for example. All professional sports leagues are feeling the pandemic pinch. But baseball, with its 162-game season, is leaving more on the table. To follow the thread in Goldberger's closing chapter, the “theme park” business model that some teams are pursuing may offer the promise of new revenue streams, but the teams that are moving to control more of the public space around ballparks are doing so just as the gatherings they host become health hazards, taking on financial risks once borne by local merchants and shouldering more of the brunt of a lost season. That gamble seems to be working for the Braves, so far: According to the franchise’s parent company’s latest quarterly report, rental income at the Battery is up, offsetting a drop in baseball revenue. It remains to be seen, however, how the team’s tenants will fare if the pandemic digs in for the long haul. Oakland could be a test case of whether these kinds of developments are viable in the near term. The A’s are planning a new waterfront ballpark as the jewel in the crown of a major residential and commercial development in Jack London Square. Once set to open by the start of the 2023 season, the scheme has been threatened by the arrival of Covid-19; some are urging the team to build on land near the Oakland Coliseum instead. Baseball has suffered self-inflicted wounds recently, too, in the form of high-profile cheating scandals involving the Houston Astros and the Boston Red Sox, and controversial rules changes intended to speed up the game, including one absurd measure that puts a runner on second base at the start of each frame of extra innings. Another new rule comes via the coronavirus: a Covid-19 injured list. Unlike the time-limited disabled lists, the Covid IL allows clubs more flexibility in swapping replacement players in and out — a tricky proposition with minor-league play entirely canceled for the 2020 season — while also setting up testing protocols designed to prevent player with positive tests from infecting teammates and staff. For fans who engage with baseball through fantasy leagues, navigating coronavirus diagnoses is now an aspect of game play. Baseball has come back from crises before — most notably from the 1994-1995 strike that cut off the 1994 season and delayed the opening in the next year. According to Gallup, the percentage of Americans who identified as baseball fans declined after the strike, and attendance plunged. “Disgruntled fans sent a message of ‘a plague on both your houses’ in 1995 by means of a 20-percent drop in attendance,” sports business expert Paul D. Staudohar wrote in the March 1997 edition of the  Monthly Labor Review, a publication of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. But baseball rebounded — becoming more popular than ever during the steroid-fueled chase of home run records in the 1998 season. Another crisis, and another reckoning. It remains to be seen what happens when the plague is not metaphorical. But one hopeful model to look to is the Korean Baseball Organization. When the KBO started their season in May in the pandemic’s shadow, dedicated baseball fans in the U.S. willing to get up before dawn — or more prosaically, to program their DVRs — could get a fix by tuning into ESPN broadcasts of the Korean league. On Sunday, the KBO opened a few stadiums to fans — with restrictions. Temperatures were checked and phone QR codes were recorded to facilitate contact tracing in the event of an outbreak. Seating was limited to 10% of capacity and masks were required — and no food or alcohol was permitted. Would American fans buy tickets to watch live baseball under such austere conditions, with the action on the field constituting the entire experience? It’s hard to believe that the league thinks so, given the obsession with rules changes to speed up the pace of the game. Baseball parks at 10% capacity wouldn’t be that unfamiliar to fans of many teams. In the late 1980s, in the waning days of what Goldberger calls the “concrete donut” era of baseball stadiums, many low-performing teams routinely drew crowds at just 1/7 or 1/8 of available seating. As a college student in Baltimore, I was once able to roam across an entire empty section of upper deck to retrieve a foul ball at a Memorial Stadium game in the midst of the Orioles’ worst-ever losing streak. Memorial Stadium and places like it — municipally funded multi-purpose stadiums that housed football teams as well as baseball — were built in the 1950s and 1960s against a backdrop of slow growth in baseball attendance. Baseball looked to expansion to boost its popularity: new teams, more games and interleague play. But over the years the sport has been outpaced in TV ratings by both football and basketball. With the feeder of the minor leagues closed off for now, it’s not inconceivable to imagine drastic measures to ensure baseball’s survival, such as contraction or Premier League-style split, in which the wealthiest and most perennially successful franchises form their own elite clan. That could mean a second tier of professional baseball between the top minors and the majors, with teams competing to join or stay in the top tier through a system of promotion and relegation. As it has in so many avenues of American life, the coronavirus could easily end up exacerbating baseball’s structural inequalities. Should the pandemic linger and ballparks remain empty (or perhaps, if we’re lucky, 10% filled) for the foreseeable future, one might easily imagine a diminished if still meaningful role for the game. Bill Lee, the lefty pitcher and improbable countercultural hero of the 1970s Red Sox, famously said that “Fenway Park is a religious shrine. People go there to worship.” Just like the churches of medieval Europe function today more as tourist attractions than sites for the devout, American ballparks may end up occupying the same niche position in the cultural landscape.Freelance writer Adam Mazmanian is executive editor of Federal Computer Week.