The Mark O. Hatfield U.S. Courthouse in downtown Portland, Oregon, typically guarded by federal officials, has been an epicenter of clashes between federal agents and protesters. Just days after his inauguration in January 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump pledged to dispatch law enforcement agents to Chicago. It wasn’t the first time: The president has long fixated on the city’s crime rate, and he raised the prospect of federal intervention several times over the course of his campaign. His first directive after his inauguration read as a warning. “If Chicago doesn’t fix the horrible ‘carnage’ going on,” Trump wrote via Twitter, “I will send in the Feds!” Once again, the president is promising to send federal police officers to Chicago. This time, the context is different. Trump has  set off alarms among critics and protesters by deploying federal agents from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to regulate the ongoing protests over police brutality in Portland, Oregon. Now he says he means to do the same in other cities. “Today I’m announcing a surge of federal law enforcement into American communities plagued by violent crime,” Trump said at a White House press event on Wednesday. “We’ll work every single day to restore public safety, protect our nation’s children, and bring violent perpetrators to justice.” There’s a hitch in this narrative: It’s not really the federal government’s job to engage in local policing. There are plenty of potential exceptions to this. But even if federal agents weren’t engaging in detentions of protesters that civil rights advocates have called unconstitutional, they’d have to justify their expansive presence in cities. There are a few ways the administration is doing this — namely an executive order on statues and a Department of Justice program called “Operation Legend.” In Portland, unidentified federal officers are apprehending protesters under the authority of an executive order signed by the president in late June to protect federal statues, memorials and property. But in his announcement Wednesday, Trump declared an overt intent to  send agents to Chicago and Albuquerque for the purpose of fighting violent crime. In remarks articulating his vision for federal law enforcement in American cities, the president said local leaders have aligned themselves with radical movements to reform or abolish police departments. Trump said that these efforts to “shut down policing” have led to “a shocking explosion in shootings, killings, murders, and heinous crimes of violence.” While these remarks reflect recent events over the last few weeks, the Trump administration has been laying the groundwork for its justifications for federal police deployments for longer. On violent crime, Trump wrote a letter to Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot and Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker in late June outlining a case for federal intervention to address a surge of homicides. The letter did not promise any specific action, but it hinted at federal and strategic resources. Trump was hardly extending a helping hand. The memo is peppered with insults of Lightfoot and Pritzker, and framed in the same threatening tones he’s used to talk about violence in cities with large Black populations for years. “Your lack of leadership on this important issue continues to fail the people you have sworn to protect,” Trump’s letter reads. That letter was the precursor to a program dubbed “Operation Legend,” an initiative launched by U.S. Attorney General William Barr on July 8. The Department of Justice describes Operation Legend as a “sustained, systematic and coordinated law enforcement initiative across all federal law enforcement agencies working in conjunction with state and local law enforcement officials to fight the sudden surge of violent crime.” The president said Operation Legend will entail hundreds of officers from at least five federal agencies dispatched to Chicago. The initiative, which started in Kansas City, Missouri, earlier this month, is named after LeGend Taliferro, a 4-year-old child who was shot and killed in Kansas City in June. On the same day that Trump sent that letter to Chicago, June 26, he took action on what is now his other justification for federal agents in cities: protecting national memorials. The White House issued an executive order called “Protecting American Monuments, Memorials, and Statues and Combating Recent Criminal Violence,” prompted by the destruction of Confederate memorials as well as disputed monuments to American history. At the time, the order was ridiculed by many for outlawing activities that are already crimes under federal law. Yet the order includes a line that the White House has interpreted as authorizing its police force in Portland (and perhaps soon beyond): “Upon the request of the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the Administrator of General Services, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, personnel to assist with the protection of Federal monuments, memorials, statues, or property.” This executive order has been cited as the authority for the federal presence in Portland by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol. But how might that executive order justify agents not just securing property but also surveilling protesters? A document from the DHS obtained by the national security blog Lawfare may explain more of the administration’s thinking: It outlines a legal argument for “expanded intelligence activities” and describes officers as “collecting and reporting on various activities in the context of elevated threats targeting monuments, memorials, and statues.” The memo suggests a sweeping application of the White House order on statues. Homeland Security can collect intelligence on protesters planning vandalism of seemingly any memorial or statue, federal or not, according to Lawfare. Many legal experts have  pointed out that none of this may necessarily provide legal justification for actions that have transpired in Portland, including unidentified agents who jumped out of unmarked vans and grabbed demonstrators, without a clear indication of probable cause. Even Homeland Security staffers have described their misgivings about the law enforcement surge and called for an internal investigation. “I did not sign up nor was I trained to be a street cop,” one agent deployed to Portland told BuzzFeed News. But this series of actions does at the very least provide some explanation. Steve Vladeck, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law and Lawfare contributor said on a podcast that what is “ominous” and “unjustified” is the federal administration’s treatment of “relatively minor federal crimes and perhaps even some state offenses as the kinds of threats to homeland security” even where there’s little indication “that local authorities are unwilling or unable to enforce the relevant statutes.” In Chicago, Lightfoot has extended no invitation to Trump or Barr to send federal forces to Chicago. In a response to Trump’s June letter, the mayor made it clear that Chicago was not interested in partnering with federal authorities, at least not under the terms offered by Barr and Trump. “As any law enforcement official will tell you, what is needed more than anything in an operation to protect lives is a clear mission, a detailed operations plan, and a chain of command,” Lightfoot’s letter reads. “Secret, federal agents who do not know Chicago, are unfamiliar with the unique circumstances of our neighborhoods and who would operate outside the established infrastructure of local law enforcement would not be effective, regardless of the number, and worse, will foment a massive wave of opposition.” Since sending that letter, Lightfoot has made her position even clearer. “Under no circumstances will I allow Donald Trump’s troops to come to Chicago and terrorize our residents,” she wrote in a tweet on Tuesday night. Other leaders have joined the mayors of Chicago and Portland in rejecting the federal takeover of local law enforcement. The mayors of Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Portland, Seattle, and Washington, D.C., signed a joint letter to Barr and Homeland Security Acting Secretary Chad Wolf objecting to the lack of consent to and oversight of federal law enforcement in these actions. These leaders were joined by nine more mayors in a petition to Congress to launch an investigation. “The American people have a right to understand the circumstances under which federal action has been authorized and taken in American cities,” the mayors’ letter to Congress reads. “We urge you to investigate these actions immediately.” The White House pledge to police numerous cities follows years of threats from Trump to do exactly that. In recent months, he has made good on that threat. After protests spread following the police killing of George Floyd, Barr  called in thousands of state National Guard units from around the country to occupy the streets off D.C., under questionable authority. In the days that followed, Trump demanded that the military send 10,000 active-duty troops into the streets. Now the Trump administration has found a new rationale to deploy federal police in cities across the country — several rationales, even.