Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. U.S. virus cases rose 2.3% with a record 71,389 new infections, exceeding the 1.9% average daily increase of the previous seven days. It was the fifth consecutive day of rising U.S. cases, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Johns Hopkins University. President Donald Trump wore a mask during a visit to Walter Reed National Medical Center. It was the first public photo opportunity with the president in a mask since the start of the outbreak. Walt Disney Co. reopened two theme parks in Florida. That state and Arizona reported increased Covid-19 deaths, while the pace of infections slowed in both states. Texas had a record number of new cases. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Total cases in Brazil, which has the highest number of infections and deaths after the U.S., reached 1,839,850, according to the Health Ministry’s press office. Another 1,071 deaths were reported, for a total of 71,469. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Utah sent an email to worshippers asking them to wear masks as cases in the state continue to climb, the Deseret News reported. “Please join with us now in common purpose for the blessing and benefit of all,” read an email noting that the state hit a record number of daily cases on Friday of 867. As of Saturday, the state reported a total of 28,223 cases and 207 deaths, according to Bloomberg and Johns Hopkins University. The University of Maryland suspended football workouts after nine athletes and staff members tested positive for Covid-19, the Washington Post reported. The university did not say if the positive tests were football players or from other sports. Demonstrators opposed to a new virus lockdown in Serbia clashed again with the police, resulting in 71 arrests, the Associated Press reported. It was the fourth night of protests after President Aleksandar Vucic announced a curfew for this weekend. Fourteen police officers were reported injured as right-wing protesters hurled bottles, rocks and flares. The police launched back tear gas to disburse to crowds. President Trump wore a mask during a scheduled visit to the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.The event was the first public photo opportunity in which he has appeared with a mask on since the beginning of the outbreak. He was set to meet with combat veterans and health care workers. Despite repeated calls to do so, including from members of his own party, Trump has stubbornly refused to wear a mask, defying official guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health experts. The U.K. government is set to make wearing masks mandatory in shops and other undisclosed indoor venues, the Times reported. Masks are currently compulsory on public transport but Boris Johnson has, so far, promised only to get “stricter” on their use. Scotland has already made it compulsory to cover faces in shops. Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards said he would require masks in public and will shut down bars to in-person consumption, the Advocate reported. The changes take place Monday. “It’s become clear, to me, especially after the numbers we saw yesterday that our current restrictions are not enough,” Edwards said. Cases in Louisiana rose 2.9% on Saturday, to a total of 76,803, according to data from Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. As recently as this week, Edwards, a Democrat, was reluctant to impose a mask order, saying it would be difficult to enforce across the state. Texas reported a record 10,351 new cases of Covid-19, bringing the state’s total to 250,462. The increase of 4.3% was above the seven-day average of 3.9%. Deaths rose by 99 to 3,112, the Department of State Health Services said on its website. Hospitals in Texas have come under pressure from the surge, which prompted Governor Greg Abbott to reverse himself and impose a mandatory face-mask requirement on July 2. The federal government is ramping up coronavirus testing in Texas, Florida and Louisiana. U.S. cases rose by a record 71,389 from a day earlier to 3,215,861 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The 2.3% jump was over the daily average of 1.9% over the past week. Deaths rose 0.1% to 134,430. A virus outbreak at Los Angeles Apparel has infected 300 people and caused four virus-related deaths, the Los Angeles Times reported, quoting county officials. County officials found “flagrant violations” in public health control, the newspaper reported. The company, started by the ousted founder of American Apparel, Dov Charney, is now making face masks to combat the virus. Disney opened its Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom Saturday, after a four-month shutdown and despite criticism that it did so as virus cases are spiking in Florida. Josh D’Amaro, chairman of Walt Disney Co.’s theme parks, said he was pleased with booking trends. The park is opening with virus-related safety protocols, including temperature checks at gates and mandatory mask-wearing by guests and employees inside. “This is the new world that we’re operating in and we feel like we’ve got a way to operate in that new world,” D’Amaro said. Epcot and Disney’s Hollywood Studios parks will return on Wednesday. The U.K. reported 820 new virus cases, up from 512 the day before. Deaths rose by 148, up 48 from the day before. The nation now has 289,678 total cases and 44,883 deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins. California reported 8,047 new Covid-19 cases, a 2.6% increase, less than the seven-day average of 3%. There have been 312,344 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the state, according to the health department’s website. The number of deaths climbed by 94, or 1.4%, to 6,945. Veteran Indian actor Amitabh Bachchan has been admitted to Mumbai’s Nanavati Hospital after contracting the virus. Bachchan, 77, shared the information on his social media, prompting a welter of get-well-soon wishes from fans across the world. He requested anyone who has been in his close proximity over the past 10 days to get themselves tested. New Jersey reported 49 new virus-related deaths, compared with 31 a day earlier, raising the toll to 13,578. The state reported 438 new cases, in line with the seven-day average rise of 0.2%, increasing the total to 174,959. Arizona reported 69 new deaths, compared with 44 on Friday. New coronavirus cases rose by 3,038 to 119,930, a 2.6% increase that’s the smallest since July 4 and lower than the 3.5% average for the previous seven days. The total positive rate for people tested for Covid-19 in Arizona is 11.7%, according to the state health department. Deaths among Florida residents increased by 95, two more than on Friday and fewer than the record 120 deaths recorded Thursday. The state’s health department corrected an earlier number that showed deaths reaching a record. Cumulative cases reached 254,511, an increase of 10,360 or 4.2%, less than the previous 7-day average of 4.6%. The median age in Florida for people who have contracted the virus, which never rose to more than 37 last week, was steady at 40. New York reported 730 new virus cases, in line with the seven-day average increase of 0.2% Once the center of the outbreak in the U.S., New York’s infection rate remains significantly below that of most states, even amid a cautious reopening. The state reported six new deaths compared with eight reported the day before. At the height of the outbreak in New York in mid-April, 799 people were reported dead in a single day. The number of patients currently hospitalized for the virus fell to 799, from 826 the day before, Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a tweet. Italy, which has the European Union’s deadliest Covid-19 outbreak, reported 188 new cases Saturday, down from 276 the previous day and in line with the seven-day average, Health Ministry data showed. New deaths declined to seven from 12 on Friday, raising the total to 34,945. Italy had a one-day peak of 6,557 new infections on March 21. Scientists say an upper-arm shot using the antibody-rich blood plasma of Covid-19 survivors could inoculate people against the virus for months, but federal officials and companies aren’t enthusiastic about the proposal, according to the Los Angeles Times. The dispute is over the timing, rather than the promise of the idea. Plasma-based therapies should focus on treating people who are already sick, not on prevention, federal health officials and industry groups told the newspaper. Anthony Fauci said the idea is an “attractive concept” but scientists need to first prove it’s effective for current patients. Companies are reluctant to invest in a product that could soon be replaced by a vaccine, advocates for the immunity shots told the LAT. Croatia reported 140 infections on Saturday, the highest daily toll. The number of total infections to date grew to 3,672 and 118 deaths, with one patient dying in the last 24 hours. Slovenia confirmed 34 cases on Friday, the most since mid-April, bringing the total number of infected to 1,793. Bosnia and Herzegovina had more than 300 new cases for the second day in a row. The total confirmed cases stand at 6,719, with 219 deaths. Cases in Serbia rose to 18,073. Police in Belgrade detained more than 70 protesters who tried to storm the parliament building late Friday as anti-government demonstrations triggered earlier this week over a planned virus curfew lapsed into violence again. Qatar Airways said all passengers from Pakistan must show they were tested for Covid-19 within 72 hours of their flight departure and present a negative result. The mandatory pre-flight requirement will take effect Monday, a Qatar Airways spokesperson said in an email on Saturday. Qatar Airways currently operates services to the Pakistani cities of Islamabad, Karachi, Lahore and Peshawar. Pakistan has more than 246,000 reported cases, the highest in Asia after India. Cases in Qatar rose by 498 to more than 103,000. Iran’s fatalities rose to 12,635 with 188 more deaths from the virus in the past 24 hours, up from 142 the day before. The number of infections surpassed 255,000 as the country recorded 2,397 new cases overnight, up from 2,262 on Friday. Some 217,000 people have recovered and 3,338 patients are in intensive care units. Oman reported more than 1,000 new infections for a 12th day, bringing the total to 54,697. U.S. military facilities in Okinawa, including Marine Corps Air Station Futenma and Camp Hansen, have found a total of at least 50 coronavirus cases, NHK reported Saturday, citing unidentified people. NHK cited Okinawa Governor Denny Tamaki as saying many new virus cases have been confirmed at the bases. Okinawa Governor Denny Tamaki questioned disease prevention measures taken by the U.S. military and renewed his demand for transparency at a news conference, the Associated Press reported. Coronavirus spreads fastest at 4 degrees Celsius (39 Fahrenheit), U.K. government scientists said, adding to concern about a winter resurgence, the Telegraph reported. The Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies is thought to be focusing on the precise temperature as Melbourne, which is currently in its coldest month, went into a six-week lockdown due to a spike in cases. Russia reported 6,611 new confirmed coronavirus infections in the past day, in line with increases in the past week, raising the total to 720,547, according to data from the Russian government’s virus response center. Almost 27% of new cases were asymptomatic. In the past day 188 people died of the disease, bringing total death toll to 11,205. Slovenia confirmed 34 new coronavirus infections on Friday, the most since mid-April, bringing the total number of infected to 1,793. The number of fatalities remains at 111. Germany’s coronavirus cases rose by 331 while the death rate held steady, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Deaths increased by 6 to 9,063, a smaller increase than most days since the beginning of March. The reproduction factor -- or R value -- rose slightly to 0.80, according to the latest estimate by the Robert Koch Institute, Germany’s health body. That’s under the key threshold of 1.0, seen as crucial to preventing a second wave of infections. — With assistance by Ian Fisher