Welcome to Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. For decades, tension has built along the Nile over Ethiopia’s plan to dam the main tributary of a river that's the key water source for Egypt and Sudan. It's now come to a head. The Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam is almost complete and water is already rising in the giant reservoir. What hasn’t been finalized is an agreement over the pace of filling given the impact on downstream nations. That pact, Egypt says, is essential before the river’s flow can be disrupted. Satellite imagery is inconclusive as to whether Ethiopia has started allowing water to accumulate. The country has said any “pooling” is because of heavy rains — a statement treated with suspicion as the country has repeatedly said it planned to start the process in July. Egypt, which in the 1970s warned it would go to war if the dam was built, has stressed it’s keeping all options open. It has made few concessions despite years of talks brokered by the African Union, the U.S. and even the United Nations’ Security Council. The country's concern is understandable. The Nile bisects the desert nation of 100 million people, most of whom live along its banks. Ethiopia has been similarly intransigent. The fast-growing economy needs the 6,000 megawatts the dam’s associated power plant will generate to drive industrial growth. With the $4.8 billion construction cost having been partially funded by donations from Ethiopian citizens, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed is under pressure to get it up and running. Not only that, its successful filling would show that Ethiopia is no longer bound by so-called colonial-era agreements on the Nile’s use that favor Egypt and Sudan. The stakes are high, and for now no one seems to be seeking the middle ground. Blame Game | African leaders are changing their tone on the coronavirus as infections surge and already fragile healthcare systems struggle to cope with an influx of patients. After governments in several nations  initially praised their citizenry for supporting efforts to contain the pandemic, leaders from Ivory Coast to South Africa are now chastising them for not doing enough. Maintaining physical distancing has proved difficult in many crowded settlements, and appeals to wear masks have often gone unheeded. Total Funding | Total SA’s Mozambique liquefied natural gas project completed as much as $16 billion in funding involving more than a dozen banks. The biggest investment project ever in Africa is taking shape despite an Islamist insurgency nearby and as the coronavirus hammers the global economy. The financial close is expected by the end of September. Presidential Terms | The sudden death of Alassane Ouattara’s chosen successor could see him run for a third term as president of Ivory Coast, countering the push in Africa to limit leaders’ tenures. A top official from the West African nation's ruling party urged him to reverse a decision taken in March not to contest the October election. Ouattara hasn’t commented on the issue since Prime Minister Amadou Gon Coulibaly’s death, but has  previously said a new constitution adopted in 2016 allows him to run again. Booze Ban | Industry groups have warned that South Africa’s latest ban on alcohol sales may force 35,000 bar owners in the poorest communities into bankruptcy. The decision to abruptly prohibit the retail of booze for a second time since March is aimed at reducing alcohol-related hospital admissions while surging coronavirus cases put a strain on emergency wards. Nigeria Payout | Nigeria's government is battling to stop an arbitration payment that would be more than what Africa's biggest oil producer earned from crude last year. It has asked a London court for more time to appeal a $9.6 billion award to Process & Industrial Developments for a 2010 gas-supply contract that the government claims is a sham. The company denies the state's allegation of bribery related to the deal. Data Watch Coming Up The statue of 19th-century imperialist and tycoon, Cecil John Rhodes, that stands in a memorial park on the slopes of Cape Town’s iconic Table Mountain, was beheaded. The bust appeared to have been decapitated using an angle grinder, according to South African National Parks, which has filed a vandalism case with the police.  Rhodes made a fortune exploiting Black laborers in South Africa’s diamond mines in the late 1800s and served as prime minister of Britain’s Cape Colony, now known as the Western Cape province. The attack is one of a series that has been mounted across several countries on symbols of colonial-era rule, with the campaign given renewed impetus by the May 25 killing of African-American George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer.