A health worker takes a patient's temperature at a Covid-19 testing site in Los Angeles on July 24. A renewed increase in coronavirus infections around the world is presenting challenges from China to Germany. Beijing confirmed a fresh case after going weeks without, and Vietnam is battling a sudden flare-up. In the U.S., National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien tested positive. Senate Republicans rolled out a $1 trillion plan to bolster the U.S. economy with a series of bills that would trim unemployment benefits, send $1,200 payments to most Americans and shield businesses from lawsuits tied to the virus. Moderna Inc. received a second round of U.S. funding for an experimental vaccine and kicked off its late-stage trial, while Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE said they would begin a later-stage study for their top candidate. A British researcher said the effectiveness of vaccines will probably depend on annual doses. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The Hong Kong government is considering postponing the upcoming legislative elections, the Hong Kong Economic Times reported, after a sudden surge in coronavirus cases raised new questions about the September vote. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam’s advisory Executive Council was expected to meet Tuesday to discuss postponing the Sept. 6 legislative elections, the Hong Kong Economic Times said, citing people it didn’t identify. An announcement could come later in the day, the paper said. Australia’s largest companies are heading into one of the worst reporting seasons on record amid a pandemic that’s sent the economy into its first recession in almost 30 years. After some initial progress containing the coronavirus, the country is battling a renewed outbreak in its second-largest state that’s forced around 5 million people into a six-week lockdown. Victoria reported 384 new cases and said it will suspend all but the most urgent elective surgeries. New York health authorities will investigate a Hamptons charity concert opened by Goldman Sachs chief David Solomon and headlined by the Chainsmokers after footage showed crowds of partiers, according to Governor Andrew Cuomo. Cuomo said he was appalled by “egregious social distancing violations” seen in videos of the Saturday night event in Southampton. “We have no tolerance for the illegal & reckless endangerment of public health,” Cuomo said, noting the Department of Health will lead the inquiry. Masks are back on in Vietnam as the government scrambles to contain an unexpected flare-up in community infections after officials reported 15 new cases in three days from the central coast region. The startling news, which began on Friday with a suspected case and carried over into the weekend with four new patients, underscored the unrelenting nature of the pathogen. Vietnam had all but claimed victory over the virus, having gone almost 100 days without a new local patient. Beijing reported one new confirmed Covid-19 case, which the municipal health commission said is linked to the outbreak in northeastern port city Dalian.That comes 21 days after the Chinese capital managed to arrest an outbreak from a seafood market through aggressive testing and targeted restrictions. The new infection could cause officials to re-impose virus containment measures in the country’s political and culture capital, disrupting lives that had just returned to normal again. In total, China reported 68 new cases, including 57 from the western region of Xinjiang, numbers from the National Health Commission show. The spikes of infection underscore the near-impossibility of stamping out the pathogen, even by a country capable of responding quickly and ferociously.Despite its success in containing an initial outbreak that infected over 80,000, mostly in Hubei province, China has been playing whack-a-mole with the virus as it re-emerges in places from southern manufacturing hub Guangzhou and northeastern border province Heilongjiang, to the all-important political center of Beijing. Texas added 675 people to its tally of deaths from Covid-19 -- bringing the total to 5,713 -- after changing its reporting basis to rely on the official cause listed on the death certificate. The state adjusted data going back to the earliest deaths in March. The new measure increased the total deaths attributed to the virus by 13% Monday. Sales in the U.K. hospitality industry slumped 87% in the second quarter, hurt by the lockdown for the pandemic, and the outlook is no less troubling, according to an industry group. Revenue from April through June totaled £4.6 billion ($5.9 billion), compared with £34.2 billion a year earlier, the New Quarterly Tracker from the UKHospitality trade association and research firm CGA says. Given what the industry group called a “catastrophic collapse” in revenue, businesses will need “extensive and sustained support over the rest of 2020 and beyond,” it said. Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE said they would begin a later-stage trial for their top coronavirus vaccine candidate, with a goal of submitting it for regulatory review as soon as October. The drugmakers said Monday that they had selected a lead vaccine candidate from within a broader development program and will proceed with a late-stage safety and efficacy trial of the experimental shot in a two-dose regimen. President Donald Trump said a number of governors are moving too slowly to open their states’ economies amid the coronavirus pandemic -- a shift from last week when he praised social distancing measures and state executives. “I really do believe a lot of the governors should be opening up states that they are not opening,” Trump told reporters Monday at an event in North Carolina. “And we’ll see what happens with them.” The comments are similar to those the president made earlier in the pandemic when he frequently lashed out at governors. Trump didn’t single out any states or governors for criticism Monday. Watch: President Donald Trump says economic recovery has been “very strong” while adding that a number of governors are moving too slowly to open their states’ economies amid the coronavirus pandemic. (Source: Bloomberg) Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.3% as compared with the same time Sunday to 4.27 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was below the average 1.7% daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose 0.3% to 147,209. Watch: California Governor Gavin Newsom says the state plans to spend $52 million to ramp up testing, treatment and infected-person isolation in eight counties of the Central Valley. (Source: Bloomberg) The European Union appears set to keep its external borders shut to travelers from most countries -- including the U.S. -- for at least two more weeks amid spikes in coronavirus cases, according to two officials familiar with the matter. The EU is leaning toward shortening a list of 13 states -- Canada, China, Japan and South Korea among them -- whose residents have the green light to visit the bloc, the officials said. They spoke on the condition of anonymity because deliberations on Monday among experts were confidential. Warner Bros. is aiming to open its big summer blockbuster “Tenet” internationally on Aug. 26 and a week later in the U.S. for the Labor Day holiday, following numerous delays for the $200 million film. AT&T Inc.’s film division initially planned to release the sci-fi thriller from director Christopher Nolan widely on July 17, but has delayed the opening repeatedly as coronavirus cases surge and force U.S. movie theaters to stay shut. Under the new plan announced Monday, “Tenet” will debut in 70 countries, including the U.K., Canada, France and Japan. It’s expected to open in the U.S. over the Labor Day weekend, and remain in theaters longer than a normal, giving more people a chance to see it. German officials are stepping up calls for people to stick to containment efforts after an outbreak among migrant workers at a farm in Bavaria provided the latest warning that the coronavirus pandemic is far from over. Germany plans to make testing, rather than self-isolation, mandatory for travelers returning from high-risk areas as Europe’s biggest economy seeks to limit the number of infections being brought back from vacation. “Rising infection numbers are reason for concern,” Helge Braun, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s chief of staff, told reporters in Berlin. Two Major League Baseball games were canceled after at least 12 Miami Marlins players and two coaches tested positive for Covid-19, according to ESPN. The Marlins delayed their home opener, while the Philadelphia Phillies -- the Florida team’s opponent this past weekend -- postponed their Monday game against the New York Yankees. The outbreak comes just days after the season started. Watch: After 12 Miami Marlins players and two coaches tested positive for Covid-19, according to ESPN, the team canceled its home opener. Shortly thereafter, the Philadelphia Phillies -- the Marlins’ opponent this past weekend -- postponed their Monday game against the New York Yankees. (Source: Bloomberg) Google will let employees work from home until July 2021, once again pushing back the reopening of its offices. The company had previously said workers could stay home until the end of this year. The change was made to help them plan ahead and applies worldwide, Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai wrote in an email sent to employees on Monday. The U.K. confirmed its first case of a pet cat testing positive for coronavirus, after the animal apparently caught the disease from its owners. There is no evidence pets can pass the virus on to humans, and the case should not be cause for alarm, officials said. No details of the location of the cat were given, but both the animal and its owners have fully recovered. President Donald Trump’s National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien has tested positive for Covid-19. Robert O’Brien speaks to reporters outside of the West Wing of the White House in Washington, DC on May 21. O’Brien has been out of the office since late last week, one of the people said. He came down with the coronavirus after a family event and has been isolating at home while still running the National Security Council, doing most of his work by phone, according to a person familiar with his situation. — With assistance by Kara Wetzel