U.S. stocks climbed after better-than-estimated jobs data indicated an economic rebound from the sharpest contraction on record. Treasuries and the dollar fell. The S&P 500 extended its weekly gain as a government report showed payrolls rose by 4.8 million in June after an upwardly revised 2.7 million gain in the prior month. The unemployment rate fell to 11.1%. All major groups in the American equity benchmark advanced Thursday -- led by energy, financial and industrial shares. Economic-sensitive companies such as retailers and airlines jumped. The Nasdaq Composite headed toward a record, and Tesla Inc. surged after reporting deliveries that beat the average analyst estimate. Read: U.S. June Jobs Rise Above-Forecast 4.8 Million; Claims Elevated The rebound in the labor market accelerated as broader reopenings spurred more hiring last month, though filings for unemployment benefits remained elevated last week. President Donald Trump said the report shows the economy is “roaring back” after losses due to the coronavirus pandemic even as new cases surge in parts of the U.S. Massive monetary and fiscal policy stimulus helped lower borrowing costs and keep the financial system liquid in a time of stress -- while propelling the stock market higher. “On balance, today’s report shows a labor market that continues to recover from the unprecedented disruption of a global pandemic and attendant shutdown in broad swathes of the economy,” wrote Matt Weller, global head of market research at Gain Capital. S&P 500 history shows index may rise again after gaining 20% in second quarter Source: Bloomberg Based on the S&P 500 Index's 10 largest quarterly percentage gains since 1950. U.S. stocks are poised to rise this quarter if history is any guide, according to Keith Lerner, chief market strategist at SunTrust Private Wealth Management. Lerner cited the S&P 500’s track record after its biggest quarterly gains since 1950 in a report Tuesday. The gains ranged from 15% to 22%, in line with last quarter’s 20% increase, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In each case, the S&P 500 rose in the following quarter. The average advance was 8.4%. These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh, Michael Hunter, Todd White, Sophie Caronello, Nancy Moran, and David Wilson