A drive-thru military Covid-19 testing site in El Paso, Texas, on July 15, 2020. Australia canceled its next planned sitting of parliament because of risks posed by the nation’s coronavirus outbreak. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden slammed the Trump administration’s handling of the virus, saying it’s trying to hide the skyrocketing number of cases from public view. Texas reported record deaths for a third straight day. The Texas Republican Party won a last-minute ruling allowing it to move thousands of delegates into Houston’s convention center this weekend amid a coronavirus surge. More U.S. national retailers imposed in-store mask requirements. President Donald Trump told Fox News he supports mask wearing but would not impose a national mandate. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Saturday he had made a request to the speaker that the session due to start Aug. 4 not be held following public health advice, citing threats including increased community transmission in the southern state of Victoria. Victoria’s capital, Melbourne, was placed into lockdown last week after breaches of hotel quarantine procedures. The number of confirmed cases in Iran stands at 269,440, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The number of fatalities is 13,791. David Hui, a Chinese University infectious disease expert, told RTHK that the Hong Kong government’s social distancing rules -- set to expire on Tuesday -- will probably be extended. The city’s economy is mired in its deepest recession on record after a disastrous year of social unrest and then the virus outbreak. U.S. District Judge Lynn Hughes granted an emergency request by party officials to reinstate the in-person meeting for the selection of the Texas GOP’s presidential electors. Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner, a Democrat, canceled the gathering last week after the city’s top medical officer testified that such a large indoor gathering could become a “super-spreader” event. South Korea reported 39 more Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, raising the total tally to 13,711, according to data from the Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. One additional death was reported. China added 22 new coronavirus cases on July 17, the National Health Commission said Saturday. Xinjiang had 16 local cases. There were three imported cases in Guangdong, two in Shandong and one in Fujian. Beijing had no new cases. Biden said the official count of the toll remains hidden from view in a non-public database at a separate government agency overseen by the President’s political appointees. “What he is doing is keeping detailed data from the group of scientists who could make best use of it: the men and women at the Centers for Disease Control,” the former vice president said in an emailed statement. “Donald Trump has waved the white flag and retreated in the face of the challenge of Covid-19. Now he is literally trying to hide.” President Trump said that while he supports the use of masks as protection against the coronavirus he does not believe that wearing a face covering should be mandatory for the nation. “I want people to have a certain freedom,” Trump said in an interview with Fox News, an excerpt of which was broadcast by the network ahead of its full airing on Sunday. Those betting against high-flying vaccine developer Moderna Inc. have taken their lumps this year with the biotech’s 370% rally costing short sellers almost $1.5 billion, according to financial analytics firm S3 Partners. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm has boomed into a $36 billion behemoth amid excitement for its vaccine to treat the coronavirus. The Texas Republican Party got the green light to move thousands of delegates into the Houston convention center this weekend after the party’s attempt at a virtual convention proved a bust, a lawyer for the party said. U.S. District Judge Lynn Hughes granted an emergency request by Texas GOP officials Friday to reinstate the in-person political gathering, which was canceled last week by Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner. Turner, a Democrat, cited health risks at a time when the city’s coronavirus infections and hospitalizations are skyrocketing. Brazil reported 34,177 new virus cases, a day after the nation passed the milestone of 2 million infections. It has the second highest number after the U.S. Another 1,163 deaths were reported, for a total of 77,851. The World Health Organization said the outbreak has reached a plateau. “The rise in Brazil is no longer exponential,” WHO Executive Director Michael Ryan said. “There is a plateau, there is an opportunity here now for Brazil to push the disease down, to suppress the transmission of the virus, to take control.” Texas virus deaths broke records for a third consecutive day, with 174 fatalities that pushed the tally-to-date to 3,735, according to state health department figures. The clash between local control and state rules setting limits on virus safety mandates in Texas deepened Friday. State Attorney General Ken Paxton issued guidance that private religious schools don’t have to abide by restrictions being issued by cities or counties, such as a Dallas County edict this week barring in-person instruction until after Labor Day, Sept. 7. “This guidance allows religious private schools to determine for themselves when to reopen free from any government mandate or interference,” Paxton wrote. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 2.1% as compared with the same time Thursday to 3.61 million, as of 3:01 p.m. New York time, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. Deaths rose by 943 to 138,840. California, where another 9,986 people have tested positive for Covid-19, above the 14-day average of 8,241, said public schools in the state’s hardest hit counties won’t be able to open for on-campus classes until the spread of the coronavirus in that area is contained. The order means that students in counties accounting for more than 70% of the state’s population will likely switch to remote learning for the beginning of the school year. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said South Africa will reduce its Covid-19 quarantine period to 10 days from 14 days, aligning the country with World Health Organization guidelines. Isolation is required for anyone testing positive or showing symptoms, Mkhize told reporters. South Africa recorded 13,172 new coronavirus cases in the latest 24-hour period, bringing the total to 337,519. The death toll rose by 134 to 4,804 — With assistance by Katrina Nicholas, Miao Han, Kyungji Cho, and Keith Gosman