Federal police walk through tear gas while dispersing a crowd of protesters in Portland, Oregon. Photographer: Nathan Howard/Getty Images North America Photographer: Nathan Howard/Getty Images North America On Monday, acting U.S. Homeland Security secretary Chad Wolf defended the camouflaged federal officers who were rounding up Portland, Oregon, protesters in rented minivans, over the increasingly outraged objections of state and city leaders. “I don’t need invitations by the state, state mayors, or state governors to do our job,” he said. “We’re going to do that, whether they like us there or not.” Later, President Donald Trump told reporters he was preparing to bring the same “fantastic” law and order to several other U.S. cities: “I’m gonna do something, that I can tell you. Because we’re not going to let New York and Chicago and Philadelphia and Detroit and Baltimore and — and Oakland is a mess — we’re not gonna let this happen in this country.” The president did not explain what “this” is; the places he listed are not experiencing widespread protests. But instigating chaos in Portland and demonizing Black cities like Detroit and Baltimore reflects a longstanding Trump preoccupation: stoking fear and resentment of America’s cities, for the benefit of an audience of suburban voters. Freaking out the suburbs helped Trump carry those voters by five points in 2016. But recent surveys show Joe Biden leading the suburbs by anywhere from nine to 25 percentage points, depending on the poll. To revive his flagging numbers amid the competing crises of the coronavirus catastrophe and the collapsing economy, Trump’s campaign has lately turned on the notion that his opponent wants to “abolish the suburbs.” Last week, the president said he would soon reveal his “plans to protect the suburbs from being obliterated by Washington Democrats.” As Kriston Capps explained in CityLab, Trump’s “savior of the suburbs” shtick can be traced to a passage of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 that requires the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to "administer [housing] programs...in a manner affirmatively to further the policies of [the Act].” Under this statute, jurisdictions receiving HUD funding have long been required to submit reports cataloging problems like segregation and proposing remedies. In rare cases, HUD has frozen federal funding to jurisdictions who fall short on this obligation. In 2015, the Obama administration published a HUD rule clarifying the obligation to “Affirmatively Further Fair Housing” (AFFH). Some fair housing activists criticized it for a lack of focus on enforcement. Conservatives — the ones who noticed, anyway — objected that Obama was forcing low-income developments on communities and undermining local control, although the rule forces no particular kind of development. “AFFH will dramatically undercut the independence of local governments, will mean significant population transfers across metropolitan areas, and will force densified development on suburbs and cities alike,” Stanley Kurtz wrote in National Review five years ago. Riffing on calls to “abolish the police,” Kurtz revived his AFFH argument on June 30, writing “Joe Biden and the Democrats want to abolish America's suburbs.” Later that evening, Donald Trump, Jr., posted Kurtz’s article on Twitter. Minutes later, his father tweeted, “I am studying the AFFH housing regulation that is having a devastating impact on these once thriving Suburban areas. Corrupt Joe Biden wants to make them MUCH WORSE. Not fair to homeowners, I may END!” (The president may not have been aware that his administration  had already moved to delay and defang the rule in 2018.) The combatants in the war on the suburbs that Trump imagines are not explicitly named, but context makes it fairly unambiguous. On Friday, Trump told supporters that Democrats would be “bringing who knows into your suburbs, so your communities will be unsafe and your housing values will go down.” Mark and Patricia McCloskey, the St. Louis couple who trained guns on Black Lives Matter protesters marching past their palatial home, recently appeared with Trump’s son’s girlfriend at a virtual campaign event. As figures of embattled White affluence besieged by an invasion of Black and Brown interlopers, they serve as useful symbols for the message that the administration is trying to convey. Trump is taking a bipartisan anti-poverty solution that he supported and wielding it to conjure a Black bogeyman to scare White suburbanites. By the numbers, Trump’s suburban strategy seems risky, in part because America’s non-urban spaces are far more diverse than he probably imagines. Suburbanites have been telling pollsters this summer not just that they are rejecting Trump, but that they are embracing racial justice. But in one sense, Trump’s strategy is shrewd. He is holding White suburbanites not to their words but their deeds. White property owners have long perceived integration of housing as a financial risk. That perception has sparked exclusionary housing policy from the restrictive covenants of a century ago right up to the refusal of landlords today to accept applications from renters using federal housing vouchers. Trump is betting his campaign on a century-long history of racial exclusion. That history continued well past the Fair Housing Act of 1968. As I detail in my 2019 book,  The Lines Between Us: Two Families and a Quest to Cross Baltimore's Racial Divide, the language and the policy of exclusion became less explicitly racist after 1968, but in scene after scene of the book, right up to the present day, White suburbanites reliably showed up to local government meetings to vocally oppose any placement of low-income housing in suburbs or any fair housing bills that would make it easier to do so. (Plans to redraw school boundary lines generate the same outrage.) However, recent research demonstrates that so-called housing mobility can be beneficial for mothers and young children who move, and the political tide has shown signs of turning for such moves just in the last few years. Here in the Baltimore region, more than 4,000 public housing families have relocated to Baltimore’s suburbs through the settlement of a  landmark civil rights suit against Baltimore City and HUD for concentrating public housing in poor, overwhelmingly Black city neighborhoods. The judge had found only against HUD, and on just one count: failing to affirmatively further fair housing — the same passage that Trump is villainizing — because HUD hadn’t asked the suburbs to take their fair share of subsidized housing. Several counties around Baltimore have passed new fair housing laws in the past few years that make it easier for poor Black renters to find housing in low-poverty suburban communities. And in February 2019, President Trump himself signed an appropriations bill that included $28 million for a “housing mobility demonstration” program. In other words, he is taking a bipartisan anti-poverty solution that he supported and wielding it to conjure a Black bogeyman to scare White suburbanites into voting for him. The great irony in Trump’s campaign for the suburbs lies in his conflicting attitudes about “local control.” Conservatives loathe talk of affirmatively furthering fair housing because they think it allows the federal government to usurp local government decisions on zoning and other ways of determining the “character of the community.” But Trump is eager to send federal troops into cities whose leaders have made it very clear that they are not wanted. Inconsistency on local control is OK, it seems, as long as the right people are kept in their place. Trump doesn’t really care who controls what, as long as he maintains control of the White House. In ginning up an imaginary war on the suburbs while dispatching unaccountable, unidentifiable federal officers in camouflage to a real American city, he’s only reflecting back decades’ worth of pleas from suburbanites to Washington — and to their state governments and county councils — to help them, in whatever plausibly constitutional way they can, to keep their communities wealthy and White. The question is: Have America’s suburbs changed enough to resist this kind of nakedly racist NIMBYism? There is recent evidence that they have. But there are decades of history that align them with Trump.Lawrence Lanahan is the author of The Lines Between Us: Two Families and a Quest to Cross Baltimore’s Racial Divide. His work has appeared in Slate, NPR, and other outlets.