Second-floor facade of a maison de maître in Brussels’ Saint-Gilles neighborhood, designed by architect Ernest Blerot. Photographer: Alan John Ainsworth/Heritage Images via Getty Images Photographer: Alan John Ainsworth/Heritage Images via Getty Images (This story is part of an ongoing series on the home designs that define cities. Read more here about iconic floor plans in  Athens, Sydney, Singapore, London, Berlin, Amsterdam and Paris.) Brussels may have emerged as one of Europe’s unofficial capitals, but in some ways it’s not a typical European city at all. When Paris and Berlin started to swell in the 19th century, their residents mostly piled into apartments in multi-floored tenements. A quick walk around Brussels, by contrast, reveals that the city’s residents went in a different direction. Move away from its central avenues, built in open imitation of Paris, and instead of apartment buildings, you find something altogether different — tall, skinny single-family homes opening directly onto the street. Long the first choice for Bruxellois of any means, the buildings constructed to meet the local hunger for houses remain some of urban Europe’s most architecturally eccentric buildings. Despite its unfair reputation for blandness, Brussels is in fact full of whimsical residential buildings, sometimes elaborately decorated to the point of creepiness. And while many are modest, a good number of survivors still cleave to a distinctive local type of urban mini-mansion once constructed in remarkable numbers: the maison de maître. In French, the term maison de maître (herenhuis in Dutch) refers to a large, imposing house built predominantly since the revolution for a wealthy bourgeois, but not aristocratic, customer — a “master’s house.” Mainly a rural type in France, the maison de maître is typically urban in Belgium, found to an extent across all its cities. Despite demolition and subdivision, these homes are still present in large numbers. These houses are not uniform, but they do fit a type. Less grand than older mansions built for aristocrats, they nonetheless had ambitions to be more than just townhouses. Grappling with narrow Brussels plots, they played up palatial aspirations with a ground floor enfilade, a suite of three ceremonial reception rooms that, their dividing doors opened, could form a sweeping hall. This grand impression was not maintained throughout the building. The three or so floors above — featuring three rooms per floor — became less impressive until they ended in servants’ rooms under the eaves. The backyard, meanwhile, was often a dingy, workaday space with little attention wasted on it. The result is an interesting hybrid, combining floor plans reminiscent of London townhouses, plot sizes similar to old Amsterdam and servants attics like in Paris — all brought together with an elaborate, unmistakably Belgian decorative style. It’s this decoration that stands out most. While citizens of nearby Calvinist Amsterdam tended to display their riches only inside their externally plain houses, Brussels’ Catholic bourgeoisie made their wealth and taste more evident to passers-by. Some maisons de maître could be sparsely neoclassical, but the grandest dripped with statuary and bristled with ironwork. As the Art Nouveau style came into vogue (Victor Horta and other proponents of the style designed many Brussels maisons de maître), windows and balconies started to take on crazy shapes. Neo-gothic and neo-renaissance trimmings were common, covering facades of polychrome brick in bruise-colored brown, yellow, russet and blue. Underneath this decorative surface variety, the brick-built houses were nonetheless somber and essentially the same in shape and plan. The overall impression remains one of solid building covered with surface extravagance, like the architectural equivalent of a portrait bust of George Washington adorned with a party hat. This might look odd elsewhere, but Belgium has extravagant baroque streak to its visual culture that long predates its history as an actual state. The country’s contemporary art of the late 19th and early 20th centuries already showed distinct macabre, expressionist surreal tendencies. The architects and artisans working on these houses were thus riding a widespread aesthetic wave. Pre-World War I Brussels certainly had the wealth to build. For part of the 19th century, Belgium was the world’s richest industrial power after Britain. Wealth also poured in from the rubber plantations of Congo, run with harrowing brutality as a private colony of the Belgian king, and bankrolling a revamp of Brussels with grandiose imperial monuments. Brussels’ builders thus took their cue for extravagance from the country’s royal rulers. What developers failed to do, however, was popularize apartment living. It’s not that they didn’t try. In the 1860s, the city’s mayor, Jules Anspach, started an overhaul of the city akin to Haussmann’s renovation of Paris. The River Senne, by then little better than a blocked sewer, was covered and replaced with a grand boulevard (currently  being pedestrianized) flanked with elegant Parisian-style limestone apartment buildings. The citizens of Brussels, according to writer and local history expert Thierry Demey, hated them: “The new Haussmann-style apartments were a disaster,” he said in an interview. “The Bruxellois were still completely unwilling to accept the idea of strangers living above their heads and below their feet. In the end, the city itself had to step in to buy up the apartments — and there wasn’t really much attempt to build apartments again for the luxury market until the 1970s.” The middle classes instead preferred new houses being constructed beyond the new ring of boulevards built over Brussels’ medieval ramparts. Their prestige, however, didn’t last. In the 20th century the maisons de maître slid down the social scale. As in many cities, affluent citizens preferred greener suburbs. Many of Brussels older streets were flattened by insensitive road projects, the construction of office towers and the political complex of the European Quarter. So much was lost that a new term was coined among urban planners to describe the destruction of historic buildings through crass, haphazard development — brusselization. Neighborhoods once considered fashionable became run-down and unloved, and larger houses were split up into apartments. What came next followed a now-standard global pattern. Middle-class interest in the inner city rebounded, and the house rows of central Brussels re-emerged as desirable places to live. Up to a point, that is. In mainly working-class areas of Brussels, you can still find entire maisons de maître for prices that would only get you a one-bedroom apartment in most of Brooklyn or downtown Washington, D.C. When you look at how many people are actually able to afford these prices locally, however, the maisons de maitre aren’t necessarily cheap at all, especially in a city where suburban drift continues apace. People born in Brussels have been moving out of the city in some numbers since at least 1991, in search of more space and less pollution. They’ve fled a chaotically-organized city whose workings are somewhat dysfunctional. Middle-class families move to semi-rural towns, while poorer Bruxellois hunt down housing bargains in the cities of southern Belgium’s ex-industrial rust belt. More people still move to Brussels than leave, but they tend to be less-affluent migrants from southern Belgium and from other countries. The largest group of Belgian-born arrivals in Brussels, meanwhile, are young adults who are unable to afford and probably uninterested in larger houses. That leaves the maisons de maître in their undivided state mainly at the disposal of a small group of people — particularly international European Union workers earning better salaries than employees of Belgian institutions. As Demey comments, he “was astounded when a house just across from mine went for 600,000 euros. That’s a very high price for a Belgian to pay. It made more sense when we found out who the buyers were: a Greek and Portuguese couple working for the EU.” But while these large houses no longer meet local needs, they still exert an influence of sorts. Check out the notoriously odd contemporary housing that fringes any Belgian town, as celebrated in the cult (and perhaps unfairly titled) blog Ugly Belgian Houses. Local tastes for unusual shapes and extravagant decoration, it seems, still die pretty hard.