HUD secretary Ben Carson speaks at a news conference at the White House in Washington, D.C., in March. President Donald Trump on Tuesday said he would reverse a federal rule that promotes fair housing and sets desegregation as a national priority. The policy is known as Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing, or AFFH; it’s a provision of the Fair Housing Act of 1968, signed into law a week after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. “At the request of many great Americans who live in the Suburbs, and others,” Trump tweeted, “I am studying the AFFH housing regulation that is having a devastating impact on these once thriving Suburban areas. Corrupt Joe Biden wants to make them MUCH WORSE. Not fair to homeowners, I may END!” Trump was specifically aiming at an Obama rule about how to finally implement the policy, a mandate (on paper only) for more than 50 years due to federal reluctance to address racial segregation. It might come as a surprise to the president, but his administration has already tackled this policy: The White House  took steps starting in 2018 to gut the rule by arguing that it was too burdensome—not because desegregation would have a “devastating impact” on suburban America. As he’s done time and time again, Trump said the quiet part out loud. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has taken numerous steps to undermine key rules and policies that promote desegregation as a requirement for jurisdictions that receive federal housing dollars. But under Housing Secretary Ben Carson, the agency has carefully framed those revisions in procedural terms—namely as ways to reduce the paperwork load for housing authorities. In his tweet, Trump essentially admitted that there’s a different motive: Eliminating the rule will reduce the pressure on local governments to provide space and opportunity for Black families in affluent white neighborhoods. “We finalized the AFFH rule at HUD to guarantee the promise of fair housing to every American,” said former Housing Secretary Julián Castro in an email. “It was the result of decades of work, sparked by leaders of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.” Trump’s late-night directive appeared to come from nowhere. Housing policy is far from dominating the news cycle at the moment, as the Russian bounty scandal continues to expand and coronavirus cases spike across large parts of the U.S.  The president may have gotten the idea from Stanley Kurtz, who wrote a June 30 article in National Review about his research into Biden’s housing plans. It wasn’t matched by any segment on Fox News, which is how the president usually takes in the news. (Of course, for that matter, it isn’t certain that the president wrote the tweet.) Kurtz’s story about Democratic efforts to add more housing to neighborhoods with exclusionary zoning policies came with a sensational hook: “Joe Biden and the Democrats want to abolish America’s suburbs.” This is not the first time that fair housing has come under the president’s crosshairs, however. Trump pledged as a candidate in June 2016 to dismantle the AFFH rule in an appearance with former  Westchester County Executive Rob Astorino, who is best known for his efforts in the decades-long battle to keep Black families out of white neighborhoods in suburban Yonkers. Carson, too, subscribes to the view that federal efforts to reduce segregation amount to “social engineering.” “You see this consistent through-line in his messaging,” said Thomas Silverstein, counsel for the Fair Housing and Community Development Project at the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. The president’s tweet “undermines what the professional employees at HUD are trying to do, which is pernicious in its own right.” The comments by both Trump and Carson amount to “throwback dog-whistles of the 1960s and 1970s,” he said. The Trump administration’s prior efforts to weaken housing law have been far more subtle. In January 2018, Carson slow-rolled the fair housing rule,  extending the deadline for jurisdictions to show their compliance with the Obama-era final rule on AFFH. A few months later, HUD suspended a computer-assisted assessment tool meant to help local governments demonstrate their efforts to purposefully desegregate. At the same time, the agency began to dial back a different Obama-era rule on “disparate impact,” which prohibits ostensibly neutral policies that have a discriminatory impact. Finally, HUD introduced new rules on disparate impact (in August 2019) and AFFH (in January 2020). These rules are still pending. The change of course at HUD comes at a time when mass deaths from coronavirus and sustained protests over police brutality have forced lawmakers to confront the systemic disparities faced by Black Americans, immigrants, and people of color. Advocates argue that reversing housing discrimination is a crucial first step toward equality. “The Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rule really created a routine, regular, structured way, with HUD providing the data, for local governments to identify and plan to overcome disparities, across educational outcomes, transportation, environment, and employment,” said Silverstein. The Trump administration’s stated purpose for the rules changes was to tweak the administrative burden, to lighten the load. But the changes are far reaching. Carson’s proposed disparate impact rule, for example, would set a five-point evidentiary test for plaintiffs looking to bring a case forward under the Fair Housing Act. Critics said that the the new rule would effectively require plaintiffs to prove a discrimination case before any discovery. Meanwhile, HUD’s proposed AFFH rule would radically reduce the scope of what a jurisdiction needed to produce to demonstrate its compliance with fair housing law. While the current rule requires a thorough assessment, the proposed rule suggests only about 10 work hours per year. Civil rights advocates have accused Carson of gutting the Fair Housing Act. The fair housing rule drew 19,561 responses during a public comment period. The disparate impact rule got 45,758—orders of magnitude more than federal housing rule changes typically receive. HUD emphasized the process as it worked to undermine the efficacy of these policies, citing lengthy assessments and an oft-kludgy tool as grounds for fundamentally walking back the Obama administration’s efforts to enact and enforce the FHA. The comments by Trump and Carson, however, along with Kurtz, Astorino and their implied suburban allies across America, are all about substance. Efforts to make sure that segregation isn’t the norm would have a “devastating impact” on American communities, the president’s tweet insisted. Encouraging racial integration amounts to an attempt to “abolish the suburbs.” Never mind that Democrats have tried to expand the suburban ideal by opening opportunities for Black families to find homes in amenity-rich neighborhoods. Republicans, too: Nixon-era Housing Secretary  George Romney ordered HUD to reject applications for federal funds from jurisdictions that promoted housing segregation, before he was fatefully undercut by the White House. And never mind that the actual mechanisms for fair housing enforcement are both straightforwardly just and fairly benign, such as relaxing zoning to allow more housing in affluent communities or making sure that tax credits for affordable housing don’t all wind up in areas of concentrated poverty. The president has made it clear: The issue isn't paperwork or zoning. As Castro put it: “While Vice President Biden has committed to reinstating the rule, and fulfilling the promise of fair housing to all, Donald Trump has decided to stoke racism and further divide Americans.”