Illustration by Oscar Bolton Green Illustration by Oscar Bolton Green After months of juggling the demands of her job while home-schooling two under-10s, a friend who’s a partner at a big London media agency now must bridge the gap between two new workplace tribes: those who toiled throughout the lockdown and those who were on government-subsidized  furlough. A member of my friend’s team, out on full pay since March, rankled at a company diktat requiring the use of a portion of annual leave during the furlough. My friend was sticking to the rules, she told me, but also sticking up for the 85% of employees who had to work through the lockdown. There’s now a perception internally that people who weren’t in the office don’t understand how tough it was for those who kept working. Returnees taking vacation days this summer could foster resentment, says my friend, who requested anonymity to talk about internal workplace issues. As millions of furloughed employees rejoin their teams, many managers will face similar situations. Dealing with those concerns will require clear messaging about how things changed while these people were away, as well as what’s expected of them upon their return, says Maire Kerrin, director of the  Work Psychology Group, a U.K. research and consulting firm. “In organizations where that communication hasn’t happened, people who’ve been on furlough will come back in and they’ll get an awful shock,” she says. It’s easy for the two sides to view each other with suspicion, with both thinking the other doesn’t fully appreciate the hard times they’ve been through. “Survivors” may have struggled under increasing pressure, while many of those placed on furlough are now coming to terms with a  new status in their workplace. The ongoing reality of remote working adds another layer of complexity, says Andy Yapp, professor of organizational behavior at Insead business school. With everyone sitting on the couch or at the kitchen table, much communication happens in secret, hidden away in emails and instant messages. “We don’t know who is talking to whom, we can’t infer the political system,” Yapp says. “We are stressed, tired, and worried.” For managers dealing with these complications, here are some strategies to reduce the tension:  Rebecca Earnshaw, chief executive officer of London educational charity Voice21, says that while the past few months have been dramatic, what managers needed to do was “in some ways quite straightforward.” As the economy slowly unfolds from its cocoon and we enter periods of recovery interspersed with possible second-wave lockdowns and disruptions, the playbook is less clear. “Now it’s much more complex and nuanced,” says Earnshaw, who furloughed a majority of her 20 staff when the crisis hit and still has seven not back at work. “There’s no template.”