Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images European stocks fluctuated on Friday as investors weighed positive corporate news against China’s stalling equity rally and a rising number of coronavirus cases. Treasuries jumped, sending five-year yields near a record low. Tech shares helped the Stoxx Europe 600 Index erase an earlier decline after Apple chipmaker TSMC posted revenue just above estimates for the June quarter. Carlsberg A/S climbed after it said the slump in western European beer sales has moderated. U.S. equity futures pared their losses. In Asia, China shares slumped as selling by state-backed funds signaled authorities wanted to slow the pace of gains following the Shanghai Composite’s eight-day winning run. Hong Kong fell more than 2%, with the government set to close schools after a spike in new infections. With record deaths in Florida and California, as well as fears of a second wave in Asia, the spotlight is back on the spread of the coronavirus as investors head into the weekend. While optimists are betting that fiscal and monetary support will contain the fallout, and U.S. jobs data Thursday came in better than expected, others point out that the labor market is still treacherous. “We’re going to see intermittent periods of shutdowns over the next year or so while we’re still grappling with this virus,” Erin Browne, a multi-asset portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co. said on Bloomberg TV. “But I wouldn’t expect we’re likely to see a wholesale shutdown of the U.S. economy like we saw earlier this year.” Elsewhere, oil traded around $39 a barrel in New York. In the U.K., yields on two- and five-year notes hovered near all-time lows amid speculation that the Bank of England may further ease monetary policy. Erin Browne, multi-asset strategies managing director and portfolio manager at Pimco, discusses her strategy for markets amid the surge in coronavirus cases in the U.S. Markets: China Open. (Source: Bloomberg) These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Gregor Stuart Hunter, and Adam Haigh