Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. As cases hit a new record in Hong Kong, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said there was still room for stricter anti-virus measures but dismissed rumors there will be a full lockdown. The number of new cases in Germany increased by the most in a month, as health authorities warned of the risk that returning holidaymakers may bring the virus into the country. In Africa, the number of coronavirus infections surpassed 800,000. Toyota said an employee at its headquarters in Japan’s Aichi prefecture had tested positive. Australia’s hard-hit Victoria state saw five new coronavirus deaths. California reported a second straight day of record deaths, and Vermont’s governor issued a mask mandate to protect the state from outbreaks elsewhere. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. The number of coronavirus infections in Africa surpassed 800,000, the Ethiopia-based Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said. The region has so far registered 17,088 deaths. More than half of the cases are in South Africa, which has the most wide-ranging testing program on the continent and recorded 421,966 cases. New infections are rising rapidly in Kenya, Cameroon and Nigeria, according to the Africa CDC. Hong Kong reported a record 133 coronavirus cases on Saturday, over the 100 mark for the fourth straight day. Local media put the city’s total number of cases at about 2,500. One patient died, pushing the death toll to 17. Southeast Asia’s biggest economy reported 4,714 new cases on Saturday, bringing the total to 97,286, the government’s Covid-19 taskforce said. The overall death toll stands at 4,714, with more than 55,000 recovered from the coronavirus. The Philippines added 2,019 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 78,412. Virus cases in the Philippines, which has the second-highest number of infections in Southeast Asia, have more than doubled this month. In Singapore, the authorities preliminarily confirmed an additional 513 people have Covid-19, most of whom are work-permit holders living in foreign worker dormitories. Six imported cases were placed on stay-home notice upon their arrival in Singapore. The number of new cases in Germany increased by the most in a month. The country’s reported infections climbed by 742 to 205,623 in the 24 hours through Saturday morning, according to Johns Hopkins University data, rising from the 605 cases reported the previous day. The growing number of people taking vacations is increasing the risk of the virus being brought into Germany, Health Minister Jens Spahn said in a statement Friday. The Southeast Asian nation, which has been a rare global success story in containing the virus, confirmed its first locally-transmitted case since April -- and authorities are working to assess how the person became infected. Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc has ordered tighten border and immigration controls to prevent foreigners from illegally entering Vietnam, according to a statement. The country has had 416 total coronavirus cases and no deaths. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam took to Facebook to dispel rumors that a full lockdown would be imposed on the city as it battles a new Covid-19 wave, but said stricter anti-virus measures could still come into play. “I note that recently there have been a lot of false rumours on the internet saying that the Government will shortly implement ‘lockdown,’” she wrote in a post. “Such malicious rumors have made our anti-epidemic efforts even more difficult and should be condemned.” “What we see now is that there is still room for further restricting the operation of various premises and reducing the number of people going out,” she said. Australia’s hardest-hit state, Victoria, reported five more virus deaths -- bringing its total to 61. Victoria also had 357 new infections, Premier Daniel Andrews told reporters in Melbourne. It follows seven deaths reported Friday, which was the highest yet for the southern state. Andrews also said the use of face masks could help prevent further restrictions on residents. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration reissued LabCorp Covid-19 RT-PCR Test emergency use authorization to include new indications for use. They include testing for people who don’t have coronavirus symptons or who have no reason to suspect infection, and for pooled sample testing. The country detected 650 new infections, Information Minister Jorge Rodriguez said, speaking on state television -- bringing its total to 14,263. Five more people died of Covid-19, he said, for a total of 134 deaths. The country reported 20 cases in Xinjiang. The far west province suspended buses and subways in its capital city Urumqi this week after the latest outbreak, and buses to Urumqi from other cities in Xinjiang were also halted. New Orleans Mayor LaToya Cantrell effectively closed the city’s bars, prohibiting take-out alcohol service from bars and restaurants starting on Saturday. Indoor bar service had already been prohibited as cases in Louisiana continue to spike. Starting tomorrow at 6am, all bars and restaurants in @CityOfNOLA will be prohibited from selling takeout alcohol beverages. Gathering size limits are not being changed at present. The limit remains at 25 people inside, 50 outdoors. A passenger on a bus in San Franciso beat the driver with a baseball bat after he and two companions were asked to wear masks, as required by law, the Associated Press reported. The driver asked the three men several times and pulled over to let them off when they refused. “As the victim was escorting the males off the bus one of the males pulled out a wooden bat and struck the victim several times, which caused the victim to be injured,” the police said in a statement quoted by the AP. Texas reported its second-highest tally of daily virus deaths, with fatalities rising by 196 to total 4,717. New cases rose by 8,701, the lowest in four days, bolstering hopes that mask mandates in the state are beginning to pay off. The state now has a total of 369,826 confirmed cases. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.9% as compared with the same time Thursday to 4.07 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was above the average 1.7% daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose 0.7% to 144,780 — With assistance by Karen Leigh, and Ian Fisher