We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The European Union is seeking to break a deadlock on a massive economic recovery fund, with holdouts ready to agree on a key plank of the deal, officials said. In the U.S., the White House is set to start talks Monday on the next virus stimulus package. Donald Trump said without evidence that the U.S. has the “best mortality rate.” Florida’s outbreak is “totally out of control,” according to a Democratic representative, and the mayor of Los Angeles said his city is “on the brink” of new restrictions. Flare-ups in some Asian countries prompted a return to tighter rules. Residents in Melbourne must wear masks as Victoria state reported another 275 cases. Hong Kong also expanded mask regulations as infections rose by a record on Sunday. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Hong Kong international schools and kindergartens should not begin the new school year before Aug. 17 in light of the coronavirus outbreak, Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung said at a briefing. The government will announce whether those schools can reopen at least two weeks before mid-August. It will also consult schools and health experts on new school year arrangements. The four European Union governments that have been holding up negotiations over a massive stimulus package to reboot the bloc’s economy are ready to agree on a key plank of the deal, two officials said. After negotiating through the night, the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden are satisfied with 390 billion euros ($450 billion) of the fund being made available as grants with the rest coming as low-interest loans, the officials said, asking not be named discussing private conversations. The bloc’s 27 leaders will gather again at 4 p.m. when they will be aiming to settle the outstanding issues such as the overall size of the fund and the mechanisms for controlling its spending. The U.K. said it’s secured early access to 90 million doses of “promising” coronavirus vaccine candidates, according to a statement. The country has gained access to 90 million vaccine doses from an alliance of Pfizer and BioNTech, as well as from Valneva, with more in the pipeline as part of its strategy to build a portfolio of promising new vaccines to protect the U.K. from Covid-19 Germany recorded a drop in the number of new coronavirus cases, and the infection rate fell while remaining above the key threshold of 1.0. There were 155 new cases in the 24 hours through Monday morning, bringing the total to 202,735 according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That compares with 535 the previous day. The reproduction factor of the virus declined to 1.25 on Sunday from 1.42 the day before, according to the latest estimate from the Robert Koch Institute. That means 100 infected people are estimated to spread the disease to 125 others. Tokyo confirmed 168 new cases of coronavirus, Governor Yuriko Koike told reporters in remarks streamed by broadcaster NHK. The number of cases dropped below 200 for the second day in a row, after three consecutive days above that level. Global banks including Citigroup Inc. and UBS Group AG are suspending their return-to-office plans in Hong Kong after the city reported a daily record of more than 100 new coronavirus cases. Citigroup, which had already asked as many as 70% of staff to work from home last week, is now asking most people to do so starting Monday, according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are also requesting workers stay away from the office, while UBS estimates about 60% will work from home, triple the level of two weeks ago. Scores of members of Russia’s business and political elite have been given early access to an experimental vaccine against Covid-19, according to people familiar with the effort, as the country races to be among the first to develop an inoculation. Top executives at companies including aluminum giant United Co. Rusal, as well as billionaire tycoons and government officials began getting shots developed by the state-run Gamaleya Institute in Moscow as early as April, the people said. They declined to be identified as the information isn’t public. Australia’s Victoria state reported another 275 cases of Covid-19 and warned that it’s too early to say whether a lockdown across the city of Melbourne is helping to slow the spread of the virus. State Premier Daniel Andrews said a woman in her eighties had died from the virus, bringing the state’s death toll to 39. While the number of new infections is down from 363 cases reported on Sunday, Andrews said it was too soon to say whether the state had “turned a corner.” China reported 22 new coronavirus cases, with 17 coming from the province of Xinjiang. Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, is offering free tests amid fears of an outbreak that has led to a lockdown of housing compounds and the closure of malls and hotels. The city of more than 3.5 million people reported its first infection in five months on July 15. Jack Nicklaus said he and his wife Barbara tested positive for Covid-19 in March, then isolated for a month in Florida, CBS Sports reported. “It didn’t last very long, and we were very, very fortunate, very lucky,” the golf great said in the broadcaster’s interview. Brazil reported 23,529 new cases and 716 deaths, both declines from the day before. The Latin American nation, with the second-worst outbreak after the U.S., now has almost 2.1 million cases and 79,488 deaths. The World Health Organization on Friday said that the nation’s outbreak had hit a “plateau” and “is no longer exponential. Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro berated social isolation measures designed to slow the spread of the coronavirus, saying they are destroying jobs and compounding pain for Latin America’s largest economy. Bolsonaro, who is himself recovering from the virus, told supporters outside the presidential palace on Saturday evening that people who are left jobless will end up dying of hunger. “You have to think about the economy,” he said in the video that was posted on his Facebook page. “It’s no use talking about life, life and life because isolation kills.” Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 2.2%, above the 1.9% daily average over the past week, as of 3:31 p.m. Sunday in New York, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. Deaths rose by 943 to 140,369. Florida hit its fifth consecutive day of cases over 10,000. Talks on a new coronavirus stimulus package will start at the White House on Monday with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and others, President Donald Trump’s chief of staff, Mark Meadows, said on Fox News Channel. The administration is balking at $25 billion in new funding favored by Republican lawmakers to help states with coronavirus testing and contact tracing, according to a person familiar with the matter. Los Angeles, facing a renewed onslaught of the coronavirus, may be “on the brink” of new restrictions, said Mayor Eric Garcetti. Another stay-at-home order was an option, Garcetti, a Democrat, said on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday. But he emphasized that the city still had room in hospitals and is testing aggressively. Democratic Representative Donna Shalala said Florida’s Covid-19 outbreak is “totally out of control” and called for a lockdown of the third most-populous U.S. state. “It’s terrible,” and talking about reopening schools is “ridiculous,” Shalala, whose South Florida district sits within Miami-Dade County, said Sunday on ABC’s “This Week.” She faulted the Trump administration and Governor Ron DeSantis for reopening the state too soon. President Donald Trump said Anthony Fauci, the U.S. government’s top infectious-disease expert, is a “little bit of an alarmist” but that the two men have a “great relationship.” Trump made the comments in a lengthy interview on “Fox News Sunday” after members of his administration have criticized Fauci. The president also said he’d heard the U.S. has the “best mortality rate” related to the virus. He provided White House data that undercut his argument, showing the U.S. rate isn’t the lowest. “We are the envy of the world,” Trump said about testing. New York reported 502 new virus cases, a 0.1% rise compared to the weekly average increase of 0.2%. Another 13 deaths were reported. The drop comes as New York City, once the center of the nation’s Covid-19 outbreak, prepares to enter its final Phase Four reopening on Monday. Low-risk outdoor events, like zoos and botanical gardens, will open again, and movie shoots can resume. Sports can restart, but with no fans. And no gyms, museums or indoor dining. Russia’s ambassador to the U.K., Andrei Kelin, rejected allegations that hackers linked to the country’s intelligence services targeted British coronavirus vaccine research, and accused Britain of cyber attacks against Russia. Britain’s National Cyber Security Centre said on Thursday that vaccine and therapeutic sectors in multiple countries have been targeted by a group known as APT29, which it said is “almost certainly” part of Russian state intelligence. Security agencies in the U.S. and Canada later backed the findings. — With assistance by Jeff Sutherland