A simple tape labyrinth on craftsman Lars Howlett’s back patio in Oakland, California. Photo Courtesy of Lars Howlett Photo Courtesy of Lars Howlett Lars Howlett is one of the country’s foremost labyrinth makers. For churches, hospitals, schools, estates, county fairs, and thousands of YouTube viewers, he’s designed, built, and taught the creation of these spiral-like walking paths. His services range from a $600 labyrinth consultation to a full-blown $25,000 installation. Lately, his Bay Area-based business is booming. While institutional projects — normally Howlett’s bread and butter —  have fallen to the wayside with many campuses and religious sites closed, homeowners hoping to build private backyard labyrinths have become the bulk of his client base. Since March, Howlett has worked on several residential projects in California, including one in a palatial Bel Air estate with a shape mimicking the famous labyrinth at Chartres Cathedral in France. Demand has also surged for his summer labyrinth-making workshops, which he’d normally hold in person; this year they have shifted online and have seen enrollment triple. Howlett suspects that the interest is a sign of the anxiety that the pandemic has brought about. “The labyrinth is a sure path for uncertain times,” he said. “It brings order out of a sense of chaos.” That belief is echoed by many members of the labyrinth community, a small, tight-knit, global group of spiritually-minded people who say they find a sense of peace and relief by moving through these intriguing structures. These seekers are not limited to those with sprawling backyards: Many of them frequent public labyrinths, build their own out of found materials, or use the hand-held variety. In contrast with mazes, which generally have multiple branching paths and come to dead ends, labyrinths have only one entrance and path. Their patterns have been found on coins, carvings, mosaics, and petroglyphs dating back to at least 430 BC. The Worldwide Labyrinth Locator, which directs would-be walkers to nearby sites, counts roughly 6,000 globally in schools, gardens, libraries, agricultural areas, beaches, mountains, and private properties, as well as famous cathedrals and temples. While many labyrinths are closed due to the pandemic, several are outdoors and still accessible to the public. Web traffic to the online locator has been steady through the pandemic despite lockdowns, according to Jeff Saward, an author of books about labyrinths and the site administrator. And while they are often found in places of prayer, labyrinths have no specific faith affiliation, explained Lauren Artress, the author of several books about the labyrinth’s meditative properties and the founder of a society devoted to its teachings. They are structures designed to contain and quiet inner thoughts through slow physical movement, guided by geometric lines that some people consider sacred, she said. Some people choose to mull a question, prayer, or problem as they walk; others do not. Artress leads a monthly labyrinth facilitation course for people who wish to introduce others to the psychic benefits of labyrinth walking. The class used to be held in person and would normally attract about 40 people per month. Currently Artress has 64 people signed up to her online version, with students including two librarians, an addiction counselor, a few psychotherapists, local leaders, and several clergy members from all over the world including Nigeria and Australia. When the present is so stressful and the future so opaque, she’s not surprised to find more people looking to the labyrinth. “It’s a map that takes you into your interior world,” said Artress, who others describe as a key leader behind this niche movement. “You get a bigger picture, answers to the question you are facing. That is why they're in enormous use right now,” at least compared to the recent past. Lisa Gidlow Moriarty, the owner of the Minnesota-based labyrinth maker Paths of Peace, has also seen parts of her business grow. Sales of her handheld labyrinths have increased 300% compared to the same time last year. Made of wood, pewter and plastic, the objects sell for $30 to $175 and are designed to be meditatively traced with a finger. She has also seen a 45% increase in sales of her portable canvas labyrinths, driven largely by demand among first responders and caregivers in Covid-19 hotspots such as New York, Mississippi and Arizona. Christiana Brinton, the vice president of communications for the Labyrinth Society, which counts about 500 global members and holds an annual meeting, has also noted the rise in interest. While the society itself skews toward an older demographic, Brinton said she receives about 20 daily requests to join the 9,700 member Facebook group, many of them from younger people. She believes the uptick is connected to broader recent interest in various forms of mindfulness, meditation, and self-care practices. While some people are building private labyrinths in backyards and on patios, others are still looking for ways to share them. One is Natalie Burton, a fiber artist and mother of five in Ogden, Utah, who was recently diagnosed with a chronic illness that prevents extended physical activity. This month her family fulfilled a long-time fantasy of hers and built a labyrinth with rocks in their front yard, so that both she and neighbors could use it. Another is Reginald Charles Adams, a professional artist in Houston, Texas, who has been drawing elaborate sand labyrinths on the beaches of Galveston as an offering to anyone walking by. And Tyler Jones, a filmmaker in Birmingham, Alabama, has plans to turn an abandoned lot in his neighborhood into a community garden, which will include a labyrinth made of bricks reclaimed from old industrial sites nearby. Given that public gatherings require a level of mindfulness and intention right now — not to mention air flow —  labyrinths seem to be an answer made for the times, said Jones. As community spaces, they can provide a healthy distraction from troubling thoughts, he said, with no religion attached or pricey wellness purchase necessary: “It’s a non-intimidating way to walk, center yourself, get grounded, and move on.”