India saw its coronavirus cases exceed 1 million, becoming the third country to cross that mark. Manila, capital of the Philippines, may return to a lockdown as coronavirus cases rise while Jakarta in Indonesia keeps social-distancing measures set to expire amid a surge in cases. Australia’s most-populous state will tighten restrictions on gatherings while its second most-populated state had a second day of a spike in cases. Florida and Texas reported record numbers of virus deaths. Brazil surpassed 2 million cases as the virus spreads in the country’s poorer, remote areas. Dr. Anthony Fauci said many states reopened too quickly and called for “a time out” yet said he expects results for a clinical trial on monoclonal antibodies by late summer or early fall. The U.K. accused Russian state intelligence of trying to steal vaccine research. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. India saw its coronavirus cases exceed 1 million, becoming the third country to cross that mark, according to its health ministry, as the virus continues to spread rapidly in the world’s second most-populous nation. The south Asian country is trailing only the U.S. and Brazil, which have 3.6 million and 2 million infections respectively, data compiled by Johns Hopkins University show. With 1.3 billion people, India’s population is more than double of these two countries combined and is squeezed into a smaller land mass, implying the virus has plenty more room to run. Though India imposed the world’s most-expansive lockdown in the end of March with fewer than 1,000 cases, it could not suppress the viral transmission. Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike said Friday’s new virus cases are expected to be similar to Thursday’s level. Koike declined to provide a specific figure at a briefing that was streamed live on broadcaster NHK’s website. The number of cases confirmed Thursday was a record 286, amid a new surge in cases in Japan’s capital. The Philippines will allow some foreigners to enter starting August 1, presidential spokesperson Harry Roque said. The number of arriving foreigners will be subject to the maximum capacity of the port of entry as returning Filipinos will be given priority, according to the virus task force. Foreigners must pre-book their own Covid-19 testing provider and accredited quarantine facility. Students from Europe are exempt from the U.S. coronavirus travel ban, Reuters says, citing State Department communication with congressional offices. The U.S. also plans exemptions for some au pairs and family members of visa holders. Travelers from Hong Kong entering Shenzhen will be required to show a negative nucleic acid test completed within 72 hours and be subject to a mandatory 14-day quarantine, according to a notice by the Office of Port of Entry and Exit of Shenzhen Municipal People’s Government. The measures went into effect at 10 a.m. Friday. Yet quarantine exemptions for certain business people, cross-border students and drivers still apply. South Korea reported 60 more coronavirus cases in 24 hours, raising the total tally to 13,672, according to data from the Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. Two additional deaths were reported for a total of 293. Of the additional cases, 21 are locally infected, while 39 are imported cases, according to the report. Australia’s most-populous state -- New South Wales -- will further tighten restrictions for gatherings and venues, including clubs and cafes, Premier Gladys Berejikliantells told reporters. Meanwhile, Australia’s second-most populous state, Victoria, recorded its second day of a spike in coronavirus cases as its capital city Melbourne is gripped by a second wave of infections. It had 428 new cases in the past 24 hours, Premier Daniel Andrews told reporters Friday. That’s the largest single-day increase for any of Australia’s states and territories, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “These numbers are very challenging, we always said it would get worse before it got better,” Andrews said. In New South Wales, restrictions were tightened on gatherings Friday, fearing undetected cases of community transmission could spread rapidly as had occurred in Melbourne. All restaurants, clubs and cafes will be limited to bookings of a maximum 10 people and restricted to one person per four-square-meters, while weddings and other functions will be limited to 150 guests who must remain seated and not dance or mingle. Indonesia’s capital will remain under social-distancing measures for two more weeks after new coronavirus cases surged since the easing of a partial lockdown a month ago. The transition period to completely exit a so-called large scale social distancing rules to contain the virus will be extended to July 30, Governor Anies Baswedan said in a message posted on YouTube. The city, which last month allowed offices, places of worship, restaurants and shopping malls to reopen in phases with some limits, was set to lift the remaining restrictions on Friday. Jakarta, home to more than 10 million people, has remained one of Indonesia’s virus hotspots with the gradual easing of social distancing rules allowing most economic activities to resume, fueling a surge in infections. The continuation of curbs may hit a nascent recovery in Southeast Asia’s largest economy. President Donald Trump’s chief of staff criticized Anthony Fauci for comparing the current coronavirus outbreak to the 1918 flu pandemic, calling it “irresponsible,” after reprimanding another top White House adviser for publicly attacking Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert. “He suggested that this virus was worse than, or as bad as, the 1918 flu epidemic,” Mark Meadows said during a Fox News interview. “I can tell you that not only is that false, it’s irresponsible to suggest so.” Fauci said earlier this week at an event sponsored by Georgetown University that the coronavirus is a “pandemic of historic proportions” and “when history looks back on it, will be comparable to what we saw in 1918,” when influenza killed tens of millions of people worldwide. The Philippine capital will remain under loose movement restrictions starting July 16, but may return to lockdown in two weeks if coronavirus cases continue to rise. Metro Manila will stay under general community quarantine until the end of July, allowing most businesses to remain open, presidential spokesman Harry Roquesaid at a televised briefing. The health department on Thursday said the nation added 2,498 cases, bringing total infections to 61,266 while deaths rose by 29 to 1,643. Coronavirus cases in the Philippines have more than tripled since stay-home orders in the capital were lifted and most businesses were allowed to reopen starting June. The Philippines has the second-highest number of infections in Southeast Asia, next to Indonesia. Japan’s agriculture ministry has decided to suspend bids seeking contractors for its “Go To Eat” campaign aimed at supporting eating establishments hit by the coronavirus outbreak, Jiji reports without attribution. “It would make a bad impression if bids were started under the current circumstances,” Jiji quotes an unidentified government official as saying. A separate “Go To” travel campaign to help ailing tourism industry came under fire out of concerns it would fuel the spread of infections. Japan’s government decided to exclude Tokyo, where infections are again surging, from the nationwide program. Netflix Inc. said that while the company has resumed making shows in Asia and Europe, “current infection trends create more uncertainty for our productions in the U.S.” Other parts of the world such as India and some of Latin America “are also more challenging and we are hoping to restart later in the year in these regions,” Netflix said in a shareholder letter. The company warned that “growth is slowing as consumers get through the initial shock of Covid and social restrictions.” Netflix shares plunged after its subscriber forecast missed estimates. Anthony Fauci said many states rushed too quickly to reopen without bringing the virus adequately under control, leading to the resurgence in states across the U.S. south and west. “We’ve got to regroup, call a time out,” Fauci, director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Disease, said live in an interview with Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg. Watch: Dr. Anthony Fauci, White House coronavirus task force member and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, says the U.S. has been a “mixed bag” when it comes to controlling the spread of Covid-19. (Source: Bloomberg) Fauci also told Zuckerberg that he expects results for a clinical trial on monoclonal antibodies by late summer or early fall. “What we really need are drugs that, when given early, can prevent a symptomatic person from requiring hospitalization or very dramatically diminish the time that they’re symptomatic,” Fauci said during the Facebook Live interview on Thursday. Monoclonal antibodies can be administrated intravenously or through a shot. Latin America’s biggest economy reported 45,403 new cases of Covid-19 in a 24-hour period, pushing the number of infections to more than 2 million. The death toll rose by 1,322 to 76,688. Brazil trails only the U.S. on both counts. Brazil has added 1 million cases in less than a month in a rapidly shifting outbreak. Wile official numbers have stabilized in places such as Sao Paulo, the richest state, the disease is spreading fast elsewhere. The World Health Organization has said that Brazil’s outbreak may not peak until August. Texas posted its worst day of Covid-19 fatalities and recorded more than 10,000 new cases for a third straight day. The death toll rose by 129, breaking the record of 110 set on Wednesday, according to state health department data. The tally of new cases is closing in on the 300,000 mark. Governor Greg Abbott warned delegates at the state Republican convention that the worsening outbreak is leaving him with few options aside from shutting down the second-most populous U.S. state. Officials across Texas are mobilizing overflow mortuary space as communities anticipate a surge in coronavirus deaths following Fourth of July festivities. The U.S. South and Southwest are contending with explosive outbreaks after relaxing controls. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 2.1% as compared with the same time Wednesday to 3.54 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The percentage gain was in line with the past’s week’s average of 2%. Deaths rose 0.7% to 137,897. Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson orderered people to wear face masks in public, reversing course during a surge in coronavirus cases, the Associated Press reported. The Republican governor had resisted a statewide mask mandate and opposed issuing a stay-at-home order earlier in the pandemic, the wire service said. Watch: Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security Senior Scholar Amesh Adalja discusses the race to develop a coronavirus vaccine, and the importance of face masks in combating the spread of Covid-19. (Source: Bloomberg) Colorado Governor Jared Polis issued a statewide mask mandate for public indoor spaces, including stores, for anyone over 11 years old. The order takes effect at midnight, and will last at least 30 days. “Look, in Colorado, there’s no shirt, no shoes, no mask, no service,” Polis, a Democrat, told reporters. “Very simple.” Cases have increased by 40% over the last week, the Denver Post reported, and hospitalizations are also rising. The newspaper reports that Colorado has 38,155 cases and 1,601 deaths attributed to the virus. Announcing a statewide mask requirement for public indoor spaces (like stores & businesses) unless someone has a medical condition or disability that prevents them from wearing a maskJoined by @MayorHancock @AuroraMayorMike & Dr. Rachel HerlihyWATCH: https://t.co/q4kgLsxH23 The majority of Americans in the largest metro areas felt down, depressed or hopeless last week, according to Bloomberg calculations from a new U.S. Census Household Pulse Survey, which collects data on how people’s lives have been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Some of the sunniest cities were the saddest, with high levels of depression reported in Phoenix, Los Angeles and Miami. Majority feeling down, depressed, or hopeless at least several days Source: U.S. Census Note: Total population 18 years and older surveyed between July 2, 2020 to July 7, 2020 A Russian official denied accusations by the U.S., U.K. and Canada that state intelligence is hacking international research centers working to develop a Covid-19 vaccine. “This whole story is an attempt to tarnish the reputation of the Russian vaccine by some of the people who are scared of its success,” said Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian sovereign wealth fund, which is involved in research into a vaccine. “Because the Russian vaccine could potentially be the first to the market and it could potentially be the most effective vaccine out there.” Johnson & Johnson is in discussions with multiple countries and a charitable foundation to determine how much of its experimental coronavirus vaccine will be needed. Chief Financial Officer Joseph Wolk said they are in talks with the European Union, Japan and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. “We’re still trying to determine the volumes,” he said in an interview. Watch: Johnson & Johnson Chief Financial Officer Joseph Wolk says the company is in active discussions with the European Union, Japan and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to determine how much supply of its experimental coronavirus vaccine will be needed. (Source: Bloomberg) Florida posted a record 156 new Covid-19 deaths among residents, pushing the cumulative total to 4,677, according to a report Thursday. Florida reported 315,775 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, up 4.6% from a day earlier, compared with an average increase of 4.4% in the previous seven days, according to the report from the state’s Department of Health, which includes data through Wednesday. The new rate of people testing positive for the first time fell to 12.9% for Wednesday, from 13.6% on Tuesday. The Republican National Committee is scaling back its convention next month in Jacksonville, Florida, as cases of the coronavirus spike in the state and some officials said they would not be going out of concern for their safety. For the first three days of the event, only party delegates will be allowed to attend. On the final day of the four-day event, when Donald Trump accepts the party’s nomination for president, the RNC will allow delegates, their guests and alternate delegates to attend, RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel wrote in a letter Thursday to members. The U.K. accused Russian state intelligence of hacking international pharmaceutical and academic research in a bid to win the race to secure a vaccine against Covid-19. The National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) said vaccine and therapeutic sectors in multiple countries have been targeted, declining to list the names and number of institutions affected on security grounds. Britain named the group responsible for the hacking as APT29, saying it is “almost certainly” part of Russian state intelligence. The group also goes by the name of Cozy Bear or The Dukes and has targeted U.K., U.S. and Canadian vaccine research and development organizations. Watch: Nicole Eagan, chief strategy officer and co-founder at Dark Trace, discusses Cozy Bear, the hacking group tied to the Russian government which infiltrated organizations involved in developing a vaccine for Covid-19, according to the U.K. and U.S. cybersecurity agencies. (Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Jodi Schneider, and Matthew Burgess