A safer, breezier ride to work? Photo courtesy Snap Photo courtesy Snap A London-based company is offering an alternative mass transportation mode that addresses some fears about coronavirus infection risks on public transit: a commuter service using open-topped buses. On-demand bus company Snap is currently testing a new offering that would ferry Londoners to and from work in some of the city’s 233 roof-less tourist buses. These are those double-decker vehicles with an open-air upper deck, used in cities worldwide to ferry sightseers about on “hop on, hop off” routes. Most of the London fleet is parked due to an absence of visitors; Snap is hoping to redeploy the open-topped tourist buses as Covid-safe pop-up transportation for locals, extending the pandemic-era trend of outdoor living to public transport. The service is still in development. Snap is currently going through a crowdsourcing process, taking details of people interested in the service to calculate which routes might have highest demand. Initial test journeys ran this week following the route of the London Underground’s Victoria Line, which runs across central London from northeast to southwest. Prices are expected to run at the same cost as an average tube journey — £3.30 ($4.19) — with multiple pick-up and drop off points for passengers but far fewer stops than the average bus. Snap estimates that it can run a viable service at that cost with passengers filling just a quarter of a bus’s usual capacity, a level that would make it possible for everyone to sit on the upper deck and maintain some distance from each other. Frequent cleanings after each trip would further mitigate risk. The idea might help London with a current conundrum. Some people now working from home are thinking about the possibility of returning to their workplaces, but many are still anxious that if public transit services return to anything like pre-pandemic ridership levels, they risk becoming sites of widespread coronavirus infection. The U.K. government will stop advising against all but essential journeys by public transit on August 1. But with 70% of Londoners saying in a poll last month that they no longer feel comfortable commuting by public transit, overcoming the anxieties that have been keeping people away during the lockdown period may prove hard to overcome. Meanwhile, city leaders are eager to keep vehicle traffic from surging back into the city as lockdowns ease. “The Tube in London is currently at 30% of its usage before the pandemic, while car use is at about 80% of where it was pre-pandemic” says Snap CEO Thomas Ableman. “We really don’t want a car-based recovery to this crisis, so we need to find solutions that people are comfortable with — and you can’t get a more Covid-secure means of transport than an open-topped bus.” The widespread fears around public transit may still not be entirely justified: As CityLab previously reported, neither France nor Japan reported a single coronavirus cluster on trains between May 9 and June 3, though the absence of detected clusters does not rule out the possibility of transmission. At the same time, indoor and poorly ventilated spaces where people stand in close proximity, whether in vehicles or not, do seem to pose a higher risk. In London, at least 33 bus workers, 29 drivers among them, have died from Covid-19, possibly due to repeated close exposure on buses where passengers enter at the front. Public health experts told CityLab in late May that riding on an open-air vehicle would likely be a safer alternative. But using a tourist conveyance as proper public transport is a novel post-pandemic adaptation. So far, it appears that no similar service has yet been introduced elsewhere, although some open-topped buses have resumed their regular sightseeing duty as tourists trickle back. In a rainy city like London, sitting exposed on the upper deck in bad weather might offer a somewhat unappealing commuting option, especially for those in office attire, but riders might be convinced to shelter under an umbrella if they felt it offered safer conditions. Lower passenger numbers could help. Snap does not as yet have a maximum cap on capacity but has agreed to stick to government guidelines as they are announced. The Snap service is also of interest as an example of how the pandemic recovery might offer new opportunities for privately run mobility services, especially ones that are perceived as safer than current public transit modes. Pre-booked pop-up buses — with or without open tops — could allow operators to manage capacity more easily, keeping ridership low enough to maintain social distancing without being forced to leave frustrated people behind. While similar fixed-route on-demand “microtransit” startups have so far been market disappointments, demand for alternative ways to get people to work will grow as offices reopen. If you can enjoy some fresh air and a bit of sightseeing along the way, so much the better.