Tokyo announced record new cases and an emergency may be declared if the situation worsens. Tighter restrictions loom in Melbourne as an infection spike grows. Millions of people in northern England returned to partial lockdown. In the U.S., there were unprecedented deaths in Texas, Florida and Arizona, and California suffered its second-deadliest day. Gilead Sciences Inc. expects to make more than 2 million doses of its virus treatment drug remdesivir by the end of the year. Apple Inc.’s revenue crushed forecasts as locked down consumers snapped up new phones. Amazon.com Inc. posted record profit after staying open throughout the pandemic. Bookings at online travel giant Expedia Group Inc. almost completely evaporated. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Deaths in the U.K. stayed high for longer than in other European nations Source: Office for National Statistics, Eurostat Note: Italian data past May 8 unavailable; U.K., Netherlands, France data unavailable for week ending June 19; Data is adjusted for population size and age structure India’s death toll climbed to 35,718, surpassing fatalities in Italy, the former European epicenter of the coronavirus epidemic. India now has the fifth-biggest number of fatalities globally, while confirmed cases are the third largest after Brazil and the U.S. India’s epidemic is growing at the fastest pace in the world: The South Asian nation has reported more than 760 deaths in each of the past three days, while daily infections are topping 50,000. Tokyo suffered a record 463 new cases, a fresh daily record, after reporting 367 cases on Thursday. Governor Yuriko Koike said Friday that declaring a state of emergency must be considered if the situation deteriorates. Australia’s second-most populous state reported 627 new cases in the past 24 hours, a day after suffering a record 723 additional infections. There were eight more deaths. Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews said lifting the lockdown in Melbourne is impossible under current circumstances. He said public-health experts would analyze the data, warning they may recommend more stringent measures. China reported 123 local coronavirus infections July 30, including 112 in Xinjiang and 11 in Liaoning, the National Health Commission said. There were also 4 imported cases. The number of new infections rose from 105 on July 29. Xinjiang’s new cases jumped from 96. Unlike details of cases published by local health authorities elsewhere in China, little is known about the growing infection in Xinjiang, where China’s treatment of local Muslim Uighur population has come under global criticism. Argentina posted a record daily increase of 6,377 new cases, bringing the country’s total to 185,373. There were 130 new deaths, taking the death toll to 3,441. Texas virus deaths set a new record for the second day in a row, rising by 322 to 6,274 Thursday. Texas confirmed 8,800 new virus cases, bringing its total to 412,107. About 35% of that, or 145,291, are considered “active” cases of people currently sick with Covid-19. The state health department has been changing the way it reports virus data, relying on death certificates instead of local governments. As a result, the state revised total deaths downward by 225 for this week, though that still made 302 new cases on Wednesday a record. Boris Johnson’s government re-imposed some restrictions on more than 4 million people in northern England in an effort to quell the resurgent spread of coronavirus. From midnight, people in Greater Manchester and parts of East Lancashire and West Yorkshire will no longer be able to meet indoors with members of other households, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said late on Thursday. It comes after the country registered 846 new Covid-19 cases Thursday, the highest daily total since June 28. Gilead Sciences Inc. said Thursday it expects to make more than 2 million doses of Covid-19 treatment remdesivir by the end of the year. In May, the antiviral therapy received an emergency-use authorization to treat Covid-19 after a major trial found it sped recovery by about four days in hospitalized patients. It is already being used in clinical practice. Gilead said in June it will charge U.S. hospitals about $3,120 for a course of remdesivir for most patients. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.9% as compared with the same time Wednesday to 4.47 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was higher than the average 1.6% daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose 1.1% to 151,570. California recorded 194 new virus deaths, second only to the 197 reported Wednesday and above the 14-day average of 112. The 2.2% increase brought total fatalities to 8,909. The state’s confirmed infections jumped 2.1% to 485,502. The 10,197 added Thursday exceeded the average daily increase of 9,191 over the past two weeks. Countries have made “a deep underinvestment in public health infrastructure,” said Mike Ryan, head of the World Health Organization’s Health Emergencies Program. Ryan said he was surprised by countries’ unpreparedness for the contact tracing and testing that would be necessary. If he could change anything, Ryan said he’d have the WHO offer more technical assistance to countries it had assumed would be more ready to face the challenges. Watch: World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Ghebreyesus says convincing younger people of the risks of coronavirus is one of the many challenges the organization faces. (Source: Bloomberg) Almost 10,000 people in the U.K. have been given an experimental vaccine from AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford, a key step toward finding a shot that will help control the pandemic. AstraZeneca is also well on its way to administering shots to 5,000 volunteers in a late-stage trial in Brazil and may scale up the size of its studies there, Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said Thursday in an interview with Bloomberg TV. Subjects are being enrolled in South Africa, and a test in the U.S. is about to begin. AstraZeneca Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot discusses the company’s work on a potential coronavirus vaccine and says there has been no evidence of hacking of their vaccine research. (Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Angus Whitley