A woman at the Boulder Shelter for the Homeless in Boulder, Colorado, which has more than 200 beds for men, women and transgender individuals as well as a transitional housing program. Photographer: Brent Lewis/Denver Post via Getty Images Photographer: Brent Lewis/Denver Post via Getty Images With its June 15 decision in Bostock v. Clayton County, Georgia, the U.S. Supreme Court delivered an unambiguous message: Employers cannot discriminate against employees on the basis of gender or sexual orientation. Justice Neil Gorsuch’s sweeping opinion for the 6-3 majority affirms that gay, nonbinary, trans and other LGBTQ individuals enjoy the same federal protections against discrimination that apply to race, religion or sex. Yet just two weeks later, the Trump administration announced a policy that appears to fly in the face of that decision. On July 1, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development proposed a new rule that would give homeless shelters the right to admit people on the basis of their biological sex, not their gender — a rule that could require transgender women to stay in men’s shelters. Advocates say this plan puts trans people’s lives in danger. “On the legal side of things, it’s just blatantly unlawful,” says Shannon Minter, legal director for the National Center for Lesbian Rights. “It cannot be reconciled with what the Supreme Court held in Bostock.” Coming so soon after the court’s decision in Bostock, the new proposed rule would seem to be dead on arrival. But timing is everything. The policy may be a “midnight rule” in the making — a regulation put forward just before a possible transition of power. By acting now, the Trump administration can pre-position the rule to make it that much harder to uproot, notwithstanding a firm Supreme Court decision, a virtual guarantee of legal challenges, or even a Trump loss in November. So-called midnight rules refer to federal regulations issued between a presidential election and the next inauguration. An official in the George W. Bush administration once compared Clinton officials to “Cinderella leaving the ball,” saying that political appointees “hurried to issue last-minute ‘midnight’ regulations before they turned back into ordinary citizens at noon on January 20th.” In this light, Housing Secretary Ben Carson might be trying to eke out a rule on transgender people before he turns back into a pumpkin (should President Donald Trump lose the election). Five months out from November is far from midnight, of course. It’s not even the 11th hour of Trump’s first term yet. But the federal rule-making process is a long game. The Administrative Procedures Act spells out a whole host of steps that federal agencies must follow in order to successfully promulgate a final rule (especially if the government wants to make a rule that’s built to last). Administrators at HUD wasted no time in kick-starting the process once the Bostock decision came to light, even thought the court’s order would seem to nullify the rule. “There’s another provision of federal law that allows a new administration to summarily reverse and change regulations that were promulgated by the prior administration if it’s within a certain period of time,” Minter says. HUD’s new rule would enable single-sex shelters or sex-segregated facilities to set their own policies as to who they admit. Shelters will still be required to follow state or local law, but in the absence of any intervening authority, the ministries, nonprofit groups, and municipal agencies that run shelters could turn away transgender women from women-only facilities. Trump’s top housing official has made his own position on the issue clear: Last September, Carson reportedly told staffers in a meeting that he worried that “big, hairy men” were infiltrating women’s shelters. This might sound like a somewhat niche issue, but transgender people  experience homelessness at an alarming rate. During the federal Point-in-Time count for 2018, both transgender and nonbinary individuals were present among homeless populations in every state and in nearly two-thirds of regional Continuums of Care programs. Between the 2018 and 2019 counts, the number of homeless transgender people increased by 30%, most of them living on the streets. Gender-minority children account for 3% of the unaccompanied youth population, a hugely disproportionate share. To bar transgender and nonbinary people from shelters that match their gender would be to condemn them to suffering, Minter says. “Particularly for trans women, living on the street is unsafe,” he says. “Being a homeless woman is by definition to be in a vulnerable situation. People are extremely vulnerable to violence and assault. The safety such that it is to have a secure place to sleep at night is incredibly important.” Proposed rules are finalized only once agencies have observed the public notice period, responded to comments received, and published the final rule in the Federal Register. A draft rule that hasn’t made it into the books can be scuppered by a new administration, and there are usually a lot of midnight rules competing for space toward the end of an administration. Making it all the way through the process takes time, especially for rules that the public perceives as controversial. A proposed rule on “disparate impact” — the legal theory reflecting how the government regards bias in discrimination cases — drew 45,758 comments over the public comment period, vastly more than HUD rules usually receive. That draft rule was introduced in August 2019; a year later, it has yet to appear in final form in the Federal Register. There’s not enough time to move a rule on gender and shelters all the way through such a thoroughgoing process. Yet haste is the watchword when the clock nears twelve, as a  Congressional Research Service report on midnight-rule-making warns. And there is just enough time left in Trump’s first term to put forward a rule that doesn’t substantively answer public comments and won’t withstand legal scrutiny. Especially for a rule that has already been mooted by the Supreme Court. And if Carson and the Trump administration can slip such a rule through the process — even one that openly flouts Bostock — then the rule is the rule, until a court reviews it, Congress overturns it, or a different administration undoes it. “There is the Congressional Review Act — but you would presumably need Democrats in control of the House, Senate, and the White House to repeal a rule legislatively (and to prevent a substantially similar rule from being issued in the future),” says Anne Joseph O’Connell, a professor at Stanford Law School, via email. “But any rule issued through notice and comment can be undone through notice and comment. And almost any action can be challenged in court! So even if you cannot use the Congressional Review Act, injured persons can challenge such a HUD rule, relying on Bostock.” Part of the special character of midnight rules is that their timing makes them sticky. Since at least the Reagan administration, most presidents have issued a memo — on day one in the White House — withdrawing midnight rules that had not yet been published in the Federal Register and postponing those that had not yet taken effect. For late rules that are finalized, though, the policy becomes one more thing on the list for a new administration to review. And for policies regarding especially vulnerable populations, it can take a long time to undo that sticky effect. Writing a new rule isn’t the same as enforcing a rule, and even enforcing a rule doesn’t change the culture right away. In fact, the rule allowing transgender people to stay in sex-segregated shelters that match their gender is still new: The final rule was published in September 2016, during the twilight of the Obama era. It takes time for policy to become practice, and while discrimination against transgender people facing homelessness is still rampant, the situation was slowly improving, Minter says. That work could be undone even with a rule that doesn’t last very long. “Things were definitely moving in a positive direction, which makes this all the more heartbreaking and concerning,” Minter says. “Even though the old rule is still in effect, and this is still just a proposed rule, I’m sure it’s going to cause a lot of confusion.”