Asian stocks struggled for a clear direction on Wednesday as investors awaited the conclusion of the Federal Reserve’s policy meeting. Treasuries held overnight gains and the dollar steadied. Shares slipped in Japan, where Fitch Ratings lowered its outlook on the country’s debt and earnings at Canon Inc. disappointed. Stocks in Hong Kong and South Korea ticked up and those in China outperformed on low volumes. S&P 500 contracts nudged higher after the benchmark closed lower, with worse-than-estimated results from the likes of McDonald’s Corp. and 3M Co. weighing on shares. Gold slipped toward $1,950 an ounce. Some of the world’s largest companies are reporting earnings this week, and investors are looking for clues on whether a resurgence of Covid-19 around the world will derail a recovery in the economy. A drop in U.S. consumer confidence added to evidence that the pace of the rebound is cooling as the virus interrupts reopenings in several states. Meanwhile, the Fed extended most of its emergency lending programs by three months, through the remainder of 2020. The U.S. central bank is set to announce its rate decision Wednesday, and the market anticipates a dovish statement. “There’s enough stimulus and support in the market from a monetary policy perspective, but also from fiscal, and that keeps a nice floor under the market,” said Amanda Agati, chief investment strategist for PNC Financial Services Group. “But we also think it’s going to be very difficult to make a lot of forward progress in this environment.” Elsewhere, oil steadied after an overnight decline as investors shifted their focus to domestic supply, with expectations for another build in already swelling U.S. stockpiles. Dr. Mike Ryan, head of the World Health Organization’s Health Emergencies Program, says when countries ease up pressure on the virus, they see the number of cases rise. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Carter Johnson, Rita Nazareth, Sarah Ponczek, and Joanna Ossinger