Firecrackers go off near members of a police SWAT team during protests in Seattle on July 25. Photographer: David Ryder/Getty Images Photographer: David Ryder/Getty Images A man was killed during a protest in Texas as demonstrations against racial and social injustice continued across the U.S. on Saturday night. The victim was fatally wounded at around 10 p.m. in Austin, police said. Initial reports indicated the man may have been carrying a rifle when he approached a vehicle, whose driver fired several shots, according to police, The suspect was detained. Watch on #Periscope: PIO briefing on Homicide 202071411.https://t.co/6a2mRydERc Protesters in Oakland, California, set fire to a courthouse, damaged a police station and assaulted officers late Saturday, the Associated Press reported. In Seattle, police declared a riot Saturday following large demonstrations in the city’s Capitol Hill neighborhood and deployed flash bangs and pepper spray to try to clear the area. Crowd continuing to throw large rocks, bottles, fireworks and other explosives at officers. pic.twitter.com/3gTGJUonUt The Women’s National Basketball Association season started with 26 seconds of silence and an empty court in a symbolic move to highlight social justice. As the national anthem played, members of the New York Liberty and Seattle Storm walked off the floor, as shown in a video by ESPN. The league is dedicating its 22-week season to Breonna Taylor, a Black emergency room technician fatally shot by police on March 13 in Kentucky, said Layshia Clarendon, a New York Liberty guard and member of the new W.N.B.A. Social Justice Council, at the game’s start. As the national anthem was played, the @nyliberty and @seattlestorm walked off the floor as part of the social justice initiative. pic.twitter.com/VihH5X3Yzh Armed militia groups and Black Lives Matter protesters held opposing demonstrations Saturday in Louisville, Kentucky -- separated by police barriers. The Louisville Courier Journal reported that both sides were armed, as Louisville police in riot gear closed roads and imposed other measures to contain the protesters. At least two people were arrested Saturday, the paper reported. The city has become a hot spot for protests over Breonna Taylor’s death there. Black Lives Matters protesters beginning to confront militia members pic.twitter.com/kmOUZiMouM Demonstrations were held in cities across the country on Saturday. In Los Angeles, protesters gathered in the city’s downtown, forcing the busy Hollywood freeway to close briefly, NBC4 reported. In Seattle, police declared a riot at the Capitol Hill neighborhood and deployed flash bangs and pepper spray to clear the crowd, the Associated Press reported. A group of veterans joined the Portland, Oregon protesters Friday night, sending the hashtag “Wall of Vets” trending on Twitter. The escalating demonstrations there, now focused on the federal troops the Trump administration says were sent in to protect property, continued on the streets and outside the city’s federal courthouse. The “Wall of Vets” joined the “Wall of Moms” and “Wall of Dads” formed against the intervention. Smoke from tear gas and fireworks hung over crowds in the late hours in Portland as federal agents tried to disperse the demonstrators. Read More: Trump’s Powers and Limits in Policing U.S. Cities: QuickTake See more from Bloomberg’s QuickTake: A “Wall of Vets” joined a “Wall of Moms” at the #PortlandProtests against racial injustice on Friday.Demonstrators once again gathered outside the city’s federal courthouse pic.twitter.com/zLdeHtXb5E