Welcome to Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. As their economy crashes, Zimbabweans are asking who’s in control. Last month, in an unprecedented press conference, military generals said they didn’t plan to topple President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Yet weeks later, security leaders sidelined his administration to force the suspension of the stock exchange and large mobile-money transactions as the national currency plummeted. Despite being President Robert Mugabe’s right-hand man for almost four decades, Mnangagwa was ignominiously fired after falling out with the African liberation icon’s politically ambitious wife. It’s the military that resuscitated Mnangagwa by installing him as leader following a November 2017 coup. While Zimbabwe ostensibly has a civilian government, its guarantor is the military and the men and women in uniform are becoming impatient. Mnangagwa has reason to be nervous. He promised a flood of foreign investment and political reforms. He has delivered neither. Fuel and food are scarce, with inflation at almost 800%. Some multilateral institutions have suspended lending pending the payment of arrears and the enactment of political reforms. Civil servants earn a 10th of what they took home two years ago. Most Zimbabweans haven’t experienced such pain since Mugabe led his liberation army to independence from white minority rule in 1980. Still, the path ahead is unclear and may buy Mnangagwa some time to salvage the situation. The next elections are three years away and the opposition is in disarray. While the military may be exerting influence, coups are rare in southern Africa. The one that removed Mugabe was tolerated as neighboring nations sought an end to the deluge of Zimbabwean refugees pouring over their borders. For now, the economic freefall seems set to continue. Billionaire's Haven | Sanctioned Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler made a fortune through opaque and corrupt mining and oil deals in the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to the U.S. Treasury. A lot of the money came from copper-cobalt mines in the resource-rich but devastatingly poor African nation. Paris-based Platform to Protect Whistleblowers in Africa got records that raise questions about whether a tiny bank, the Congolese subsidiary of Cameroon’s Afriland First Bank, helped Gertler continue doing business despite the sanctions. Shrinking Economy | South Africa's economy shrunk by an annualized 2% in the three months through March, the third straight quarterly contraction. It will probably become smaller in the next quarter too, given the government imposed a paralyzing lockdown for more than a month from March 27 to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The central bank estimates Africa's most-industrialized economy contracted by an annualized 32.6% in the second quarter, and could shrink by 7% this year. Toxic Legacy | Residents of one of the most polluted spots on earth in the Niger River delta are scared the filth will never be cleaned up. Oil's importance is fading in Nigeria after 60 years of extraction. Crude contributed just half of state revenue last year from 80% in the past. That means the Niger delta, which hosts Africa's biggest petroleum industry, will find it harder to clear the pollution that's deprived communities of their fishing and farming lives. Funding LNG | The Mozambique liquefied natural gas project led by Total has begun a process to finalize $15 billion of financing. The whole program to ship super-chilled gas from the southeast African country to markets around the world will cost an estimated $23 billion, and involves about 20 banks. Exxon Mobil, whose planned project is next to Total's, has delayed a final investment decision as part of a reduction in capital spending this year. Virus Surge | South Africa's Gauteng province, which includes the cities of Johannesburg and Pretoria, will add 2,000 hospital beds this month after recording 3,000 new coronavirus infections daily over the past two weeks. Authorities are considering localized lockdowns and curbs on the sale of alcohol as cases increase. South Africa has confirmed 160,000 infections, the most on the continent. Almost a third of them are in Gauteng. Data Watch Coming Up The mystery of the mass elephant mortality in Botswana, home to most of the world's pachyderms, deepened, with a study of the carcasses indicating they just dropped dead. Since early May, 356 of the nation’s 135,000 elephants have been found dead in the northwestern Okavango Delta, Elephants Without Borders said in a report. Poaching has been ruled out because their valuable ivory tusks weren’t pulled out. The animals couldn’t have been poisoned either as no dead vultures or other scavengers were seen nearby. The group recorded a number of live elephants that appeared to be weak and emaciated. One animal was observed walking in circles while being supported by other herd members.