Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez campaigns on June 23, 2020 in the Bronx borough of New York City. Last week, to considerable fanfare, the White House rolled out a surprise rule on fair housing. The new policy, which overrides an existing Obama-era regulation, would all but eliminate the federal obligation for state and local governments to demonstrate that they are using federal housing dollars to actively reduce segregation. President Donald Trump has framed this civil rights-era federal mandate as an effort to “abolish the suburbs.” If New York Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has her way, the rule might be undone before it ever takes effect. The Bronx congresswoman has introduced a pair of amendments to an appropriations bill before Congress that would defund this rule as well as another rule before they can take effect. The legislation would prevent any federal funds from being used to implement or adopt the new rules proposed under Housing Secretary Ben Carson, effectively nullifying them. If her amendments proceed, Ocasio-Cortez will deliver a setback to Trump, who has made housing segregation a plank in his campaign pitch to voters whom he identifies as the “Suburban Housewives of America.” “We must hinder President Trump’s efforts to segregate communities and to discriminate against Black and Brown homeowners and renters,” says Ocasio-Cortez, in a statement provided to CityLab. “We cannot return to the days of redlining and white flight.” The rule introduced by the Trump administration on July 23 concerns a provision of the Fair Housing Act of 1968. Federal enforcement of this mandate, known as “Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing,” has been scattershot over the last 50-plus years. In 2015, the Obama administration introduced a formal rule explaining how local jurisdictions should assess and demonstrate their progress in easing segregation in their communities. Carson, who has described the fair housing mandate as “social engineering,” moved to dial back the rule soon after joining the president’s cabinet. The agency at first deemed compliance with the AFFH standard too burdensome, and HUD  put forward a draft rule in January that would require less work from local jurisdictions. But after Trump took a personal interest in the matter, the agency pivoted to a new rule that would nix the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing process altogether, returning to the chaotic standard of the 1990s. Another proposed rule would change how HUD takes on cases alleging “disparate impact” — that is, discrimination that arises from policies that are explicitly neutral. The U.S. Supreme Court  ruled in 2015 that disparate impact is a legit liability under the Fair Housing Act, a decision that civil rights advocates greeted as a substantial step toward ending discrimination in housing and lending. The draft rule promulgated by HUD in August 2019, however, would make it harder for tenants, homebuyers, and other plaintiffs to pursue discrimination complaints under the Fair Housing Act. (Among those who are now pleading with HUD to withdraw this rule: The National Association of Realtors.) Neither rule is law yet. Rules only become legit regulations once they’ve been published in the Federal Register, and neither the draft disparate impact rule nor the final fair housing rule has appeared there. Critics have accused the Trump administration of skirting federal rule-making procedures with its latest housing rule, as it didn’t go through the standard notice-and-comment period required of other HUD regulations. Notably, Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts slapped down two signature Trump policies on the grounds they violated administrative procedure — putting a citizenship question on the 2020 Census and ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Both rules would be moot if Ocasio-Cortez’s amendments make it into law. Even a rule that scraps another rule requires changes to current guidance, scoring procedures for local jurisdictions applying for federal grants, and other categories of paperwork — none of which is possible if the appropriation bill disallows it. The appropriations bill goes to the floor for debate on Thursday, and it’s unlikely that Congress will pass it before the November election. Ocasio-Cortez’s amendments stand to be the first challenges that Trump’s fair housing rules will face; they are probably not the last.