Photographer: Dana Pleasant/Getty Images Photographer: Dana Pleasant/Getty Images Boohoo Group Plc commissioned an independent review of its supply chain amid concern over the exploitation of labor at suppliers as Amazon.com Inc. became the latest retailer to stop selling its products. Alison Levitt, a lawyer and former U.K. public prosecutor, will lead the review. Boohoo hired Bureau Veritas, a compliance specialist, to investigate. The stock fell as much as 5.1%, having lost a third of its value this week. Shares in Boohoo have lost a third of their value this week on concern the company could face a formal investigation under Britain’s Modern Slavery Act. The U.K.’s National Crime Agency said on Monday that it had visited a number of business premises in the Leicester, England, area “to assess concerns of modern slavery and human trafficking.” The agency didn’t identify the companies involved. Retailers including the U.K.’s Next Plc, fashion site Asos Plc and German e-commerce outlet Zalando SE have temporarily suspended the sale of Boohoo products following media reports that alleged that suppliers were paying less than minimum wage and putting employees’ health at risk. Amazon said that it had suspended the sale of Boohoo products as it required its “selling partners to follow all applicable laws, regulations and Amazon polices when selling in our store.” According to Berenberg, wholesale only accounts for about 5% of Boohoo’s sales. On Monday, the U.K. retailer said it has launched its own investigation and would review its supply chain in Leicester, the site of a recent flareup in coronavirus infections. Boohoo is earmarking 10 million pounds ($13 million) to eradicate supply chain malpractices, according to a statement Wednesday. The retailer said it also canceled contracts with two suppliers that were breaking its code of conduct. Last year, Boohoo hired Verisio, an ethical audit specialist, to monitor contractors. Since 2016, the company has been carrying out regular unscheduled inspections among suppliers in Leicester. Boohoo is renowned for its fast fashion where items inspired from the catwalks can be produced within a few weeks and sold on its website. It typically makes relatively small quantities of a wide range of garments so it can offer significant choice for consumers. This encourages repeat purchases as consumers come back to see what new designs are available. Boohoo can have as many as 500 lines on its website at any time. Its products are also cheap compared with rivals -- sometimes it has items selling for 5 pounds or less. An environmental audit committee of British Members of Parliament in 2018 which was analyzing waste in the fashion industry said they were concerned that fast fashion and the demand for quick turnarounds of new styles were fueling poor working conditions in British factories. While a large proportion of the clothes for Boohoo and its subsidiaries, such as PrettyLittleThing and Nasty Gal, are made overseas, about 40% of its products are made in Leicester, England from more than a 100 small factories. Its factories in England are particularly useful for “top-up” productions of popular lines. Monitors set up around Boohoo’s headquarters are updated at least every 15 minutes to show which items are selling best so that buyers can reorder popular items as needed.