Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. secured a 1.2 billion-pound ($1.5 billion) rescue in a major victory for Richard Branson, who snatched his U.K. airline from the the threat of failure under the weight of the coronavirus crisis. U.S. hedge fund Davidson Kempner Capital Management will provide about 170 million pounds in secured financing, while Branson, its billionaire founder, will contribute 200 million pounds after raising money from his Virgin Galactic Holdings Inc. space venture. The trans-Atlantic carrier will also get relief on some 400 million pounds of payment deferrals and waivers granted by owners Delta Air Lines Inc. and Branson’s Virgin Group, according to a statement Tuesday. The plan includes an added 450 million pounds of creditor deferrals. Virgin Atlantic said it will use a court-sanctioned process to secure approval from all creditors for the restructuring plan. Richard Branson during Virgin Galactic Holdings Inc.’s IPO at the NYSE, on Oct. 28. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg Branson and his team, led by Chief Executive Officer Shai Weiss, managed to secure a private bailout after the U.K. government refused to contribute taxpayer funds when Virgin Atlantic was grounded by the coronavirus crisis. After months of uncertainty the mogul, who turns 70 this week, is set to retain control of an airline he founded in 1984. Still, its future prospects are cloudy, hinging on the return of U.S. travel. New York-based Davidson Kempner, which has about $30 billion of assets under management, won the deal after offering more favorable terms than other potential backers, people familiar with the matter said on July 10. An alliance of Elliott Management Corp. and U.K. investment firm Greybull Capital declined to match it, while Centerbridge Partners stepped back after coming late to the process, the people said then. Branson’s abode in British Virgin Islands -- where residents pay no income or capital-gains taxes -- made a taxpayer bailout politically controversial. The U.K. government earlier rejected his plea for a loan guarantee for Crawley, England-based Virgin Atlantic, on the grounds that its credit rating was too low. The snub launched weeks of frenzied talks to save the stricken airline. Weiss pitched his recovery strategy to a dozen potential supporters in a virtual presentation in May. That led to interest from several parties, while Branson raised more than $400 million to help his companies by selling shares of Virgin Galactic. One of the thorniest issues involved freeing up credit-card payments withheld by settlement firms in case Virgin Atlantic went bust. That matter was resolved in the last few days, people familiar with the matter said. Aircraft leasing firms have largely gone along with the proposals. Virgin Atlantic will launch a restructuring process in the U.K. to make its plan binding on all creditors if it gets support from 75% of them. In an interview, Weiss said backing is “there or thereabouts” for each class of creditors, and he was confident of clearing the hurdle. Virgin Atlantic said that along with the recapitalization, it’s taken measures including 880 million pounds of aircraft-delivery deferrals and financing. Cost cuts, including the closure of its Gatwick base, will save 280 million pounds each year. Delta, which owns 49% of Virgin Atlantic, had said it wouldn’t put in more cash. However, the U.S. airline will make a significant contribution by delaying outstanding marketing fees and other dues. Branson, then a 30-something music entrepreneur, started Virgin Atlantic after a trip to the Caribbean on a commercial airliner was canceled at the last minute. He chartered a plane on the spot, paying with his credit card, and sold seats to the other passengers whose flight had been bumped. In time, the company grew to become the only credible U.K. competitor to British Airways, inciting an intense rivalry that continues to this day. Branson’s airline, with more than 40 jets in its fleet, operates mainly on trans-Atlantic routes between London and U.S. destinations like New York and Los Angeles. Virgin Atlantic is among the most-exposed to U.S.-to-Europe flights Source: OAG NOTE: IAG and American operate a revenue-sharing partnership, as do Delta, Air France-KLM and Virgin, and United and Lufthansa Normally it’s the most profitable corner of the entire airline industry. But the carrier has had to park its fleet due to the coronavirus, and said it would cut 3,150 jobs, after restrictions on flying between the U.S. and the U.K. caused a collapse in the trade. The London Gatwick operation has been shut down, while Virgin Atlantic is keeping its main hub at London Heathrow. The company plans to re-start flights in coming weeks. — With assistance by Luca Casiraghi, Siddharth Vikram Philip, Charlotte Ryan, and Irene Garcia Perez