Photographer: Stone/Getty Images Photographer: Stone/Getty Images The United States is a land of suburbs, with just one problem: No one’s quite clear what a “suburb” is. It’s a question of semantics with real-world implications, as government programs, political campaigns and developers try to spend money in the “suburbs,” where a majority of Americans say they live despite the category having no formal definition. For some people, it’s obvious: A suburb is a smaller city on the periphery of a larger city. Or it’s a sprawling neighborhood filled with vast swathes of single-family homes. Still other more dated conceptions of suburbia in the popular mind involve the people who live there: allegedly white, middle class and socially homogenous. Now a new team of researchers believe they’ve cracked the code. “After enough arguments with people who insisted their neighborhood was suburban or insisted it was urban, it was clear that people have a stake in how they perceive and describe their neighborhood,” said Jed Kolko, the chief economist for Indeed.com and one of the three researchers. “But different people might describe their neighborhood in different ways.” The solution? Just ask people—lots and lots of people. Kolko and his colleagues got a survey sample of 55,000 households to sound off about whether their neighborhoods were urban, rural or suburban. That let them build a model looking at which factors predict how respondents will answer. Unsurprisingly, many people defined their neighborhoods in part by their population density. But a whole host of other factors also made the prediction more accurate. For example, areas with higher median incomes were more likely to be called suburban. Areas with older homes were more likely to be called urban. Areas with lots of senior citizens were more frequently called rural. “There are some cities that are almost entirely suburban, in terms of how residents would perceive the neighborhoods.” The researchers—Kolko, Shawn Bucholtz of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Emily Molfino of the U.S. Census Bureau—have released data online showing how their model classifies every neighborhood in the U.S., as well as an academic working paper detailing their methods and findings. It’s a question that matters quite a bit because, by the researchers’ survey, more than half of American households identify as suburban: 52%, versus 21% rural and 27% urban. The results of this new study complicate any effort to define suburbs by any one metric. For example, a common way researchers define “suburb” is any city that’s in a metropolitan area, but isn’t the “central city” of that metro area. But Bucholtz, Molfino and Kolko found that 47% of U.S. households that are within the bounds of these central cities still describe their neighborhood as “suburban” rather than “urban,” especially in sprawling cities like Phoenix. There, despite its considerable size as the sixth-largest city by population, roughly half the households inside the city limits consider their neighborhood to be “suburban.” Part of Phoenix’s city limits even fell within a U.S. Census tract that the researchers predicted would be called “rural.” “There are some cities, legal incorporated cities, that are almost entirely suburban, in terms of how residents would perceive the neighborhoods,” Kolko said. “Whereas (in) other metropolitan areas there are lots of neighborhoods outside the city boundary that residents would consider urban.” On the flip side, there are parts of metro areas outside the central cities that some definitions would have called “suburban” despite their considerable size and density. According to the new research, about 13% of households outside central cities instead call their neighborhoods “urban.” This includes places like Cambridge, Massachusetts, a city of just over 100,000 residents right outside the border of much larger Boston. The model from Kolko’s team categorizes almost all of Cambridge as “urban,” and many residents agree. “When I think of a suburb, I think of an area that’s primarily residential,” said Iram Farooq, Cambridge’s assistant city manager for Community Development. “It has lowish density, a lot of single-family, maybe some two-family homes. That certainly is not Cambridge.” That’s not to say that city boundaries are meaningless. Consider the community where I grew up, a city of about 55,000 on the southwest border of Chicago called Oak Lawn. Everyone I knew there called Oak Lawn a suburb, and the researchers’ model agrees: It classifies my neighborhood as a “suburb” and predicts 92% of residents would say the same. It’s home to block after block of single-family homes—stereotypical suburbia. But cross over Pulaski Avenue on 103rd Street, and the neighborhood stays the same: close-knit single-family homes with small yards. The only difference? The east side of Pulaski is in Chicago, and the model from Bucholtz, Molfino and Kolko classifies it as urban. It turns out that neighborhoods that might otherwise be categorized as suburban are more likely to be called urban when they’re located within a large city. These factors line up with some of the debates that have divided scholars for years. One of the complications with classifying suburbs is that city boundaries are political constructs, and have been implemented differently in different parts of the country. In New England, where Cambridge is, almost the entire landscape is divided into cities, many of them quite small (and quite old); in the Midwest, much of the land is unincorporated, and cities have often annexed many of their neighbors as they grew. “City boundaries mean very different things in different places,” Kolko said. The basis of the new model is a really big survey. It’s an idea that started with work Kolko did in 2015 while working for the real estate site Trulia. He surveyed around 2,000 adults about how they’d classify their neighborhoods, and built a model around that. Other scholars, such as a 2018 Pew Research Center team, mimicked the approach with a 5,000-person sample. But the new study dwarfs them, by virtue of adding its question to the federal government’s 55,000-household National Housing Survey in 2017. Even surveying 55,000 households can only get you so far in a country with more than 128 million households. That’s why Bucholtz, Molfino and Kolko turned to a machine learning model (specifically one called a “random forest” algorithm) to identify what demographic variables predicted how people would answer. They used some of their survey responses to train this model, and others to test how that model did. The final algorithm, incorporating 22 different variables, correctly predicted around 85% of survey responses in each category. That’s much higher than the earlier Pew and Trulia studies with smaller survey samples, the researchers say in their paper. Another change from past research is that Bucholtz, Molfino and Kolko defined “neighborhood” as a U.S. Census tract—a unit of geography that’s typically around 4,000 people. Prior studies had used ZIP codes, which tend to be larger than tracts. Even breaking places down to the census tract level, however, has its limitations. Because of the scholars’ algorithm, some “islands” exist in their classifications — urban areas in the middle of remote countryside, or rural pockets of big metros. These census tracts, including a few in the above Phoenix map, may be labeled “urban” when in fact they are much more varied. Some of those have rational explanations—some “rural” tracts in big cities are forest preserves, for example. A geographically large tract whose population lives in a single dense town might appear as urban even though most of the area is undeveloped. Other outliers might just be inevitable flukes with an algorithm trying to classify thousands of tracts across the country. The researchers didn’t apply any “smoothing” processes to merge outliers with their surrounding area. Another complication the researchers found was that their machine learning model was biased toward predicting that neighborhoods would fit into the most common category: suburbs, which the American Housing Survey found was how around 52% of U.S. households described their neighborhood. But the model classified about 57% of households as living in suburbs, so the final model was re-weighted to match the 52% survey finding. The suburbs have remained ill-defined despite being home to a majority of Americans. The new model opens up a host of possibilities for future research and analysis. Pollsters, researchers and journalists often want to compare how residents of different types of neighborhoods respond to a survey question, or differ demographically. There are plenty of respected tools that distinguish between urban and rural areas, but the suburbs have remained ill-defined despite being home to a majority of Americans. Researchers have sometimes been forced to create their own definitions, as CityLab did for 2018’s CityLab Congressional Density Index, which used a variation of Kolko’s original 2015 study to classify congressional districts into six different categories on an urban-suburban-rural spectrum. The new model from Bucholtz, Molfino and Kolko makes work like that process easier, and could become a new standard for a question that has historically lacked standards. The study could also enable other kinds of research into how neighborhood type is associated with how people think and behave. More broadly, it offers important insights into a fundamental geographic question: How do we describe the places we live? “Lots of government data is reported by urban and rural, or metro and non-metro,” Kolko said. But the definitions in their survey, he said, “line up more closely with how [people] describe their neighborhoods.”