UBS Group AG signaled the worst hit of the coronavirus crisis on its balance sheet may be over, prompting the bank to consider reviving shareholder payouts after costs to cover soured loans peaked in the first half. The Swiss bank -- while warning there’s plenty of uncertainty ahead -- attracted $9 billion of net new money at the private banking business in the second quarter and saw higher transaction-based income as clients boosted trading in volatile markets. While credit loss expenses will remain high in coming months, they won’t match the $540 million posted in the first half. UBS, which serves mostly wealthy clients and doesn’t do a lot of corporate lending, has been relatively shielded from the defaults which prompted Wall Street firms to set aside tens of billions of dollars to cover an expected wave of bankruptcies. At the same time, it also benefited from the trading bonanza that saw Wall Street firms post record profits: fixed-income trading revenue at the investment bank more than doubled. The issue of dividend payments and buybacks has been controversial because of the relief that banks have received from regulators to help them withstand the crisis. Finma, the Swiss watchdog, followed the lead of the ECB which urged banks to postpone dividend payments until at least October to conserve capital because of the economic damage caused by the coronavirus outbreak. UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG were among the last European firms to delay their dividend after the Swiss regulator followed European counterparts in pressuring lenders to suspend payouts because of the economic uncertainty. Chief Executive Officer Sergio Ermotti said he’s now confident that the bank would pay the second tranche of its 2019 dividend in the second half. UBS stopped a $450 million buyback program in March because of covid. UBS shares rose as much as 3% in early Zurich trading and were 2.6% higher as of 9:22 a.m. The stock is down about 3.9% this year. The Swiss bank added $272 million to its loan loss provisions during the quarter, slightly below estimates, with Europe starting to reopen businesses. By comparison, five of the biggest U.S. banks put away $35 billion combined during the three months, trying to predict how bad things could get with the pandemic still ravaging the world’s largest economy. The bank reiterated that the majority of its credit exposures are of high quality, in part reflecting the wealth of its home country. A Great Quarter for Wall Street Comes at a Very Awkward Time UBS joins lenders including European rival Deutsche Bank AG in predicting that provisions to cover souring credit are peaking. It’s also predicted along with Wall Street firms that the volatile market conditions that boosted trading revenue in the first half probably won’t endure. Swiss rival Julius Baer Group Ltd on Monday also signaled its preparing to restart its dividend payments after reporting record first-half profit, though it’s still remains to be seen whether European regulators outside Switzerland will give the green light for banks to resume payouts. BNP Paribas SA is leading a charge by French lenders lobbying to resume payments as they seek to shore up slumping share prices because of the coronavirus, people familiar with the matter said last month. UBS Profit Rose With Virus Chaos That Forced Dividend Delay The wealth unit, UBS’s largest contributor of revenue, said net new money was positive across the regions. UBS has been passing on the cost of Europe’s negative interest rates to more clients, charging them for deposits above a certain size that aren’t invested. Recurring net fee income declined 8% at the wealth management business, mostly reflecting lower invested assets at the beginning of the quarter. Profit at the wealth unit was supported by strong performance in Asia which made up for a 37% drop in profit year-on-year for the business in the Americas. That region faced strong headwinds last quarter due to lower invested assets, which affect recurring fee income, and lower dollar interest rates. Ermotti, who will step down at the end of October, has scaled down trading after the financial crisis, though the bank still has a sizable equities business. While many lenders, particularly in Europe, have reduced their trading operation after the financial crisis, the pandemic has shown the benefits of maintaining such a business, which can provide a hedge during times of crises and make money while other parts of the bank suffer from loan defaults. Other key highlights from UBS’s second-quarter results: