Hong Kong will close schools again and Australia is tightening inbound travel as governments react to spiking infections. Meanwhile, Japan is forging ahead with steps to reopen the economy even as Tokyo reported a record increase in coronavirus cases. President Donald Trump is heading to virus-hit Florida even as the U.S. added more than 60,000 cases for the first time, while infections in Mexico jumped by a record for a second straight day. The U.K. has decided not to join the European Union’s coronavirus vaccine program. China said samples of imported shrimp tested positive for coronavirus, raising questions again over whether the pathogen can spread through food or frozen products. The World Health Organization said it is keeping an “open mind” on whether airborne transmission plays a major role in spreading the virus. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Hong Kong reported 32 locally-transmitted cases and six imported infections on Friday. Nine of the 32 local cases are of unknown origin. The city is closing its schools again, as a surge in cases within the community after a long stretch without infections forces the financial hub to reinstate restrictions that had been loosened. All schools will break for summer holiday starting Monday. Hong Kong had reported 34 locally transmitted cases on Thursday, the most in a single day since the pandemic began. The resurgence, while small relative to outbreaks in the U.S. and elsewhere, comes after weeks of normalized activity as people returned to work and restaurants filled up again. Hong Kong started reopening schools in late May after four months of at-home classes. Hong Kong high schools, primary schools and kindergartens will be closed again The International Energy Agency bolstered its outlook for global oil demand, but warned that the recovery could be derailed by the resurgence of coronavirus. A collapse in fuel consumption during the second quarter was slightly less severe than previously estimated and demand should rebound sharply over the next three months, the agency said in a monthly report. Yet, a flare-up of the virus, which is raging across several U.S. states and re-emerging in Asia, is “casting a shadow over the outlook,” the IEA cautioned. The U.K. has decided not to join the European Union coronavirus vaccine program, according to a person familiar with the matter. Britain had been considering opting in to the program, in which the EU is spending more than 2 billion euros ($2.3 billion) to finance research into a vaccine. The EU aims to secure supplies of hundreds of millions of doses. The Daily Telegraph reported ministers expressed concern about “costly delays” in the program due to distribution talks, citing government officials it didn’t identify. China halted shrimp imports from three plants in Ecuador after some samples tested positive for the coronavirus, Bi Kexin, director of the food import and export safety bureau of the General Administration of Customs, said in Beijing. China has been testing imports of frozen and refrigerated food on concerns contaminated salmon was the origin for Beijing’s virus outbreak last month. Air travel is slowly picking up globally thanks to a recovery in domestic flights, with countries in the Asia-Pacific region accounting for half of the top 20 markets, according to travel data analytics provider Cirium. Vietnam, Indonesia and South Korea are the only countries in the world to show growth in domestic air travel in July compared with the same month last year, while China and the U.S. dominate in the number of flights operated, Cirium said in a report Friday. The U.S. entity of Japanese retailer Muji, known for its minimalist home goods, filed for bankruptcy, adding to a growing list of companies reeling from the Covid-19 pandemic. Muji U.S.A Ltd., which is owned by Japanese retailer Ryohin Keikaku Co., filed for Chapter 11 in Delaware, according to a filing. It listed assets and liabilities in the range of $50 million to $100 million, and estimated the number of creditors at 200 to 999. Japan is forging ahead with further steps to re-open the economy even as coronavirus cases continue to climb, with Tokyo posting a daily record of 243 new infections on Friday. The country will begin allowing events of up to 5,000 people, including sporting events and musical concerts. Japan is also moving toward discussions with some countries on gradually lifting strict travel bans that remain in place, according to local media reports. Japan’s medical system isn’t being overwhelmed by cases, Yasutoshi Nishimura, the minister in charge of the country’s virus response, said earlier. Australia will halve the number of citizens who can return home at any one time to relieve pressure on its system of quarantining arrivals as an outbreak in its second-most populous state worsened. The quarantine system will also be reviewed, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Friday. More than 70,000 Australian citizens and permanent residents have undertaken 14 days of mandatory isolation at government-leased hotels and the policy has helped contain the spread of the virus. But the system is creaking, particularly as flights are rerouted due to an outbreak in Victoria, which on Friday reported 288 new infections in 24 hours. Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews asked people to wear masks if they can’t practice social distancing and said case numbers are likely to worsen before plateauing next week. Mexico reported a record daily rise of 7,280 confirmed Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 282,283, according to data released by the Health Ministry Thursday night. Deaths rose by 730 to 33,526. It’s the second straight day that Mexico has posted a record daily rise in cases. The country has seen infections rise as the government moves forward with reopening the economy and as Latin America has emerged as a hotspot for the pandemic. Like other countries in the region, Mexican officials must balance the needs of people who have to work to meet basic needs while trying to slow the spread of the deadly illness. Bolivian President Jeanine Anez said she has tested positive for the virus and will work virtually during a 14-day quarantine. She got tested after members of her team were found to have Covid-19, according to a video posted on Twitter. Diosdado Cabello, second-in-command to President Nicolas Maduro in Venezuela’s Socialist Party, also said he has tested positive for the virus. Cabello said in a tweet that he was isolated and complying with treatment. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro said earlier this week that he has been infected. Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez and the Dominican Republic’s President-Elect Luis Abinader also tested positive but have since recovered. Texas reported a record number of deaths for the third straight day, topping 100 for the first time. Total fatalities rose 3.7%, to 2,918. The sharp increase in deaths this week follows a similar upturn in cases about three weeks ago. The state has identified about 10,000 new cases for the past three days, bringing the total to 230,346. The 9,782 added Thursday was a 4.4% increase, exceeding the seven-day average of 4%. New cases are eating up capacity for beds in intensive care units in Houston, which has the state’s worst outbreak. The city’s Texas Medical Center hospitals filled up all the ICU beds generally available last week, and has begun tapping converted beds. Mayor Bill De Blasio ordered large events that typically require a permit to be canceled through Sept. 30. The goal is to ensure room for outdoor restaurant seating and New York’s “Open Streets” program, which expands car-free public spaces for city dwellers. “Permits will also be denied for all events larger than one block, stage/video events that require amplification, street fairs, and events in parks that may unreasonably diminish public use,” the mayor said in a statement. Demonstrations, religious events and news conferences are exempt. The Texas Republican Party sued the Democratic mayor of Houston for ordering the cancellation of next week’s state GOP convention in the city, which is the epicenter of the state’s outbreak. Mayor Sylvester Turner on Wednesday barred the in-person gathering that was expected to draw 6,000 people for fear it would contribute to the spread of the virus in the city. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. rose by 61,791 from a day earlier to 3.08 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. It was the first time the number of reported new cases exceeded the 60,000-a-day mark. The 2% increase was higher than the average daily increase of 1.9% over the past week. Deaths rose 0.7% to 132,803. Watch: WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus says the agency named leaders of an independent panel to review its response to the Covid-19 pandemic that has been criticized by the U.S. (Source: APTN/Bloomberg) — With assistance by Adveith Nair