The Chilean peso has led a rally in currencies. Photographer: Morten Anderson/Bloomberg Photographer: Morten Anderson/Bloomberg If emerging markets can get through the final week of the month without too many hiccups, some investors might consider July to be a platform for recovery. The benchmark MSCI stock index has risen more than 7% this month, underpinned by gains in Brazil, China and India, while the Hungarian forint and Chilean peso have led a rally in currencies. Brazil and South Africa have just helped drive the Bloomberg Barclays index of domestic bonds to a fifth week of gains, their longest-winning streak since January, while dollar bonds have clocked up a 13th positive week, the best result since 2011. Investors added money to emerging-market exchange-traded funds for a third week, with more than half of the inflows going to China-dedicated ETFs, the longest streak since January. “Dollar liquidity will continue to provide support, growth data is stabilizing and debt-capital market access is available for most credits,” said Paul Greer, a money manager in London at Fidelity International, which oversees about $566 billion. “We are optimistic on emerging-market currencies in the near term given the weak U.S. dollar backdrop, competitive valuations, low inflation, improving current accounts, recovering PMIs and very light positioning.” Confidence in emerging markets is being buoyed by unprecedented stimulus efforts by the world’s leading economies, with last week’s approval by European Union leaders of a 750 billion-euro ($878 billion) recovery fund providing the latest spur. The Federal Reserve will probably signal more accommodation ahead when policy makers meet July 28-29. U.S. lawmakers are trying to hammer out another round of pandemic relief before current support expires at the end of this week. Still, risks to the rally abound. Never mind that August is rarely a positive month for emerging-market assets: Paltry signs of progress in stemming the spread of the coronavirus, coupled with fresh twists in the deteriorating relationship between the U.S. and China, will suffice to keep traders on the back foot. Tension continued to simmer over the weekend as Beijing slammed the “forced entry” to its Houston consulate by U.S. personnel and vowed to respond “as necessary.” Here’s what to watch for in the days to come: — With assistance by Robert Brand, Karl Lester M Yap, and Aline Oyamada