Medical workers handle Covid-19 test samples in Houston, Texas, on July 17, 2020. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images Photographer: Go Nakamura/Getty Images We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Texas marked its fifth consecutive day of new virus cases over 10,000, and Arizona reported record deaths. Infections and deaths in Florida dropped for a second day. Overall, U.S. cases rose 1.4%, below the daily average of 2% over the past week. The Trump administration is balking at $25 billion favored by Republican lawmakers to help states with coronavirus testing and contact tracing, said a person familiar with the talks. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has reportedly suggested he won’t impose another lockdown. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio vowed tougher enforcement against bars and restaurants. Canada denied Major League Baseball’s Toronto Blue Jays permission to play in their home city, the AP reported. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. A study of thousands of coronavirus cases in South Korea found that children younger than 10 are much less likely to pass on the disease compared to older children, who are as contagious as adults if not more so, accoding to a report in the New York Times. One of the most comprehensive studies to date, the findings could have broad implications for when, whether and how schools reopen in affected countries around the world. State-level data from the U.S. suggests that the virus is spreading more rapidly among children and teenagers than previously thought. Researchers have struggled to understand the impact of Covid-19 on kids, because testing hasn’t been widely available to people with mild or no symptoms, as is the case with a lot of pediatric infections. Mexico’s economic recovery will take longer than expected and will depend on the evolution of the coronavirus pandemic, Finance Minister Arturo Herrera said. International consensus was for a two-month lockdown followed by a fast economic recovery, Herrera said during a virtual meeting of G20 finance ministers and central bank governors. “The recovery horizon will be longer, as long as a vaccine or an effective treatment isn’t available,” Herrera said. The Mexican economy slumped a record 20% in April when the pandemic hit. Later in the day, the country reported 7,615 new Covid-19 cases and 578 deaths, bringing its total cases to 338,913 and the number of deaths to 38,888. Sydney’s airport lowered the number of arriving passengers a day by 100, to 350, the New South Wales government said in a statement. The new cap starts July 20. Brazil reported 28,532 new virus cases, down from 34,177 infections the previous day. Another 921 fatalities were reported, below the 1,163 the day before. On Friday, the World Health Organization declared that Brazil’s outbreak -- the world’s most severe after the U.S. -- had hit a “plateau” and cases were “no longer exponential.” The nation now has almost 2.1 million cases and a total of 78,772 deaths. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has authorized so-called “pool testing” for Covid-19, a move aimed at broadening checks for the coronavirus and using fewer testing resources. Quest Diagnostics Inc. will be able to test samples containing as many as four individual swab specimens, the agency said on Saturday in an emergency-use authorization. The samples collected are then tested in a pool or “batch” using one Covid-19 test, rather than running each individual sample through its own test. If the pool is positive it means that one or more of the individuals tested may be infected, so each of the samples in that pool is then tested again, individually. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson suggested he won’t impose another lockdown on the country, potentially setting his government up for further discord with its scientific advisers. He also summoned his cabinet to meet in-person the first time since March, an effort to encourage the country to go back to the office, the Mail reported on Sunday, citing an unidentified person in Johnson’s office. The U.K. said the number of new cases rose by 827 to 294,066. The increase of 0.28% is slightly higher than the average for the previous seven days, 0.25%. The country has temporarily stopped reporting daily deaths while it investigates a discrepancy in the methodology used by Public Health England and its counterparts in Scotland and Northern Ireland. The Trump administration is balking at $25 billion in new funding favored by Republican lawmakers in the next relief bill to help states with coronavirus testing and contact tracing, said a person familiar with the talks. Also opposed is a plan to allocate billions of additional dollars for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and extra funding for the Pentagon and State Department to address the pandemic around the world, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. Texas reported 10,158 new cases of Covid-19, its fifth straight day over 10,000. The state now has a total to 317,730 confirmed cases of the virus. The number of deaths rose by 130 to 3,865, the Department of State Health Services said on its website, after reaching a record 174 the previous day. Earlier Saturday, a federal appeals court ruled in favor of efforts by the Houston mayor to bar the state Republican Party from the city’s convention center, where it planned to gather to choose its presidential electors. Pending appeal, the GOP is back to Plan B: It will hold its conclave online. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.4%, below the 2% daily average over the past week, as of 4 p.m. Saturday in New York, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. Deaths rose by 586 to 139,426. The Canadian federal government has denied the Toronto Blue Jays permission to play in Toronto, refusing to grant an exemption to the quarantine requirement for cross-border travelers, the AP reported. The baseball team had city and provincial approval to play regular-season games at its stadium. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said he would step up enforcement on bars and restaurants in an area of Queens after a news report on large crowds, late-night parties and little social distancing. “This is unacceptable,” the mayor tweeted in reaction to a Fox 5 report from the Astoria section. “New Yorkers have made too many sacrifices to fight Covid-19. We can’t let up now.” This is unacceptable.New Yorkers have made too many sacrifices to fight COVID-19. We can’t let up now.We’ll be out in Astoria and across the city tonight to make sure restaurants are doing their part to keep their diners and their workers safe. https://t.co/L6dV9UTWP8 Earlier this week, Governor Andrew Cuomo said bars and restaurants would be subject to additional restrictions and tougher penalties, including a ban on stand-up bar service. New Jersey reported 309 new virus cases, up from 202 the day before -- when Governor Phil Murphy warned that the state’s transmission rate was the highest in weeks. The governor reported 16 deaths Saturday, down from 20 the day before. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said tests administered in his state Friday that aim to detect Covid-19 antibodies -- indicating whether a person had at some point been exposed to the virus -- showed a 16.1% positive rate. “That is a significant jump from where we were a month and a half ago,” DeSantis said Saturday during a press conference in St. Augustine. “So there’s a bigger pool of people who have the antibody.” DeSantis, a first-term Republican, urged people who tested positive for the virus antibodies to give blood to help with the treatment of patients currently suffering from the disease. Six distinct types of coronavirus have been identified by scientists, the Telegraph said. Scientists used artificial intelligence software to identify “clusters” of symptoms and ranked them in order of severity. Headache and loss of smell are common to all six groupings. Scientists at King’s College London found that patients with the sixth type of Covid-19 are nearly 10 times more likely to end up needing breathing support than patients in the first group. They used data from 1,600 users of its symptom tracker app in the U.K. and U.S. who had confirmed cases. The resulting algorithm was then tested on a further 1,000 users in those countries as well as Sweden. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Keith Gosman, Virginia Van Natta, Jim Silver, Salma El Wardany, Christopher Condon, Erik Wasson, Laura Litvan, Arsalan Shahla, Yueqi Yang, and Matthew Malinowski