Moderna Inc.’s efforts to come up with a Covid-19 vaccine moved forward, with a report in the New England Journal of Medicine saying it was able to produce antibodies to the coronavirus in all patients in an early trial. Tokyo will raise the Covid-19 warning to the highest level. New Zealand’s prime minister said the country must be prepared for the virus to come back into the community. Singapore expects an increase in cases. As U.S. virus cases increase, the Trump administration has ordered hospitals to send data on coronavirus patients to a central database and skip the CDC. Florida reported a record number of coronavirus deaths among residents even as the rise in new infections slowed. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. Anthony Fauci, the top infectious disease expert in the U.S., warned young people who gamble they can go out to bars and socialize thinking that even if they get sick, it won’t be a severe case of Covid-19, they are “inadvertently propagating the pandemic.” When asked at a virtual event hosted by Georgetown University who people should trust on the novel coronavirus, Fauci said “respected medical authorities” and added that he thinks he -- the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease -- is one of them. The most important thing is to “stick to the science and stick to the evidence,” he said, and not “get involved in any of the political nonsense” about masks and other issues that have become topics of debate. China is set to allow tour agencies and online tourism companies to run local group tours and hotel bookings across provinces, though foreign tourism is still banned. The move to allow large groups of people to travel domestically reflects the confidence of the Chinese government that it has contained the coronavirus after reporting zero new cases for nine consecutive days after the Beijing outbreak last month. South Korea reported 39 more Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, raising the total tally to 13,551, according to data from Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention. No additional deaths were reported and the total stands at 289. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is urging the nation to heed the lessons from other countries and be prepared for the risk of Covid-19 breaking through the borders and back into the community. Officials are planning for scenarios that will include local and regional restrictions in an effort to minimize a return to the highest alert levels which represent a move to nationwide lockdown, Ardern said in a speech Wednesday in Wellington. The nation will retain its elimination strategy and will continue to ensure the border remains as safe as possible, she said. New Zealand has 25 active cases all within its border quarantine facilities, with no evidence of community transmission for more than 10 weeks. Workers wait to take nasal swab tests for Covid-19 in Singapore on June 10. Photographer: Roslan Rahman/AFP via Getty Images Singapore expects an increase in Covid-19 cases in the next few days as it nears an end of tests for migrant workers residing in dormitories, the population that consists a majority of the country’s infections. The city state sees a rise in infections as tests in the coming days will include some workers who come from dormitories with higher prevalence of Covid-19 infection, according to a statement from the ministry of health late Tuesday The Trump administration has ordered hospitals to send data on coronavirus patients to a central database and skip the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a move some public health experts say will allow the data to be manipulated for political gain, the New York Times reports. The order, effective Wednesday, was posted on the Department of Health and Human Services website this week and came after a tense conference call between virus response coordinator Deborah Birx and hospital officials, according to the report. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government has assessed that coronavirus infections are spreading in the capital and will raise its level of alert to the highest on the scale of 4, Asahi reports, citing an unidentified official. Raising the alert will be discussed at a meeting Wednesday. Experts weighed the fact the number of daily infections exceeded 200 for four consecutive days from Thursday last week and cases of unknown origin are rising. Tokyo kept the alert at the second-highest level last week. People wear masks in the Shibuya district of Tokyo, July 10. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg Los Angeles County reported its highest number of new Covid cases and hospitalizations in a day -- 4,244 cases and 2,103 people hospitalized. The county reported 73 new Covid deaths, one of the highest reported in a single day, though that may reflect a lag in the reporting of deaths over the weekend, it said in a statement. “Today’s numbers are alarming and unfortunately are the result of many businesses and individuals not adhering to the basic public health requirements of distancing and wearing face coverings,” Barbara Ferrer, the county’s public health director, said in the statement. “Keeping businesses open is only possible if we get back to slowing the spread. ” People sit in their vehicles while lining up to enter a Harris County Covid-19 drive-thru testing site in Houston. Photographer: Go Nakamura/Bloomberg Texas set its second daily coronavirus record in four days, confirming another 10,745 cases -- a 4.1% rise compared with the 4% seven-day average. People hospitalized with confirmed cases of Covid-19 jumped to 10,569, also a state record. Deaths from the virus rose by 87, below the seven-day average, pushing the state’s total fatalities to 3,322. As the virus surged in June, Texas Governor Greg Abbott issued a mask mandate for the hardest-hit urban areas, though many rural Texas counties remain exempt. As the number of positive cases and deaths set records in the past week, threatening to overwhelm hospitals and health workers in many areas, Abbott said he would consider locking the state down again as a last resort. Moderna Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine produced antibodies to the coronavirus in all patients tested in an initial safety trial, federal researchers said. The neutralizing antibody levels produced were equivalent to the upper half of what’s seen in patients who get infected with the virus and recover, according to the results published Tuesday in the New England Journal of Medicine. The Moderna vaccine is one of the farthest along for Covid-19. While stimulating production of neutralizing antibodies doesn’t prove a vaccine will be effective, it’s considered an important early step in testing. Earlier Tuesday, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based drugmaker posted details of its final-stage vaccine trial on an official government website, confirming that the widely anticipated trial was still on track to begin on July 27. Healthcare workers administer tests at a Covid-19 drive-thru testing site in Tucson, Arizona, July 13. Photographer: Cheney Orr/Bloomberg Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.8% as compared with the same time Monday to 3.4 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. That was slower than the average daily increase of 2% over the past week. Deaths rose 0.5% to 136,117. California Tuesday saw a 4% increase in hospitalizations and a 2% rise in intensive-care unit cases because of the virus, the health department said. The state had 7,346 new cases, less than the seven-day average of 7,817. The rate of positive tests over the past 14 days was 7.1%, down slightly from 7.4% yesterday. The state has recorded 336,508 cases of Covid-19 and 7,087 deaths. Iqvia said the collaboration with AstraZeneca will drive faster delivery of clinical studies in the U.S. aimed at demonstrating efficacy of AstraZeneca’s potential Covid-19 vaccine. Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. is poised to announce a rescue worth at least 1 billion pounds ($1.25 billion), after clearing the last major hurdle to the deal, according to people familiar with the matter. Negotiations with credit-card processors holding back some 200 million pounds of sales have been resolved, said the people, who asked not to be named discussing a confidential matter. The rescue will mark a coup for billionaire founder Richard Branson, who managed to secure a private bailout after the U.K. government refused to contribute taxpayer funds when Virgin Atlantic was grounded by the coronavirus crisis. Virgin Atlantic is among the most-exposed to U.S.-to-Europe flights Source: OAG NOTE: IAG and American operate a revenue-sharing partnership, as do Delta, Air France-KLM and Virgin, and United and Lufthansa Delta Air Lines said the virus resurgence and related travel restrictions have stalled a fledgling recovery in U.S. travel demand and prompted it to slash the number of flights it had hoped to return to its schedule next month. The airline will add back no more than 500 flights in August instead of the planned 1,000. It doesn’t expect to add much more through the end of this year. “Demand growth has largely stalled,” Chief Executive Officer Ed Bastian said in an interview. “The pace of improvement from this point is going to depend on consumers’ confidence in flying.” — With assistance by Dan Reichl, Robert Langreth, David R Baker, Heather Smith, Susan Warren, and Brian Eckhouse