Stephen Jones Ex-Barclays Plc banker Stephen Jones was nicknamed Roger Jenkins’ “little dog” as the bank desperately tried to avoid state bailout during the 2008 financial crash. In an October 2008 phone call with co-workers, revealed as part of a 1.6 billion-pound ($2 billion) lawsuit against the bank, Jones complained that he had become Jenkins’ “flunkey.” Fergus McDonald, a colleague, told him about the new nickname, to which Jones joked that “Roger is big dog and I am pooper scooper.” “Maybe I am his little dog; maybe I’m the Chihuahua that goes around under his arm,” Jones, who worked at the investment banking division, said on the call. Jones is testifying as part of a lawsuit brought by financier Amanda Staveley. She alleges that the bank cheated her out of profits she earned by bringing investors into deals that helped save the lender from a takeover by the U.K. government at the height of the financial crisis. Ex-Banker Said Jenkins Acted Like He Was ‘King of Barclays’ The rescue of Barclays by Middle Eastern investors has hung over Jenkins, once one of London’s top bankers, for a decade. Earlier this year, he was unanimously acquitted of criminal charges related to the allegations in Staveley’s civil suit. In the same call, Jones and McDonald discussed a loan the bank was planning to give Qatar. Staveley’s firm, PCP Capital Partners LLP, alleges that Barclays received a desperately needed 2 billion-pound investment from Qatar in exchange for giving the Middle Eastern country a $3 billion loan. Qatar didn’t specify a purpose for the loan and demanded it on an unsecured basis for a term of two years. It also prohibited Barclays from selling the loan to other financial institutions, PCP has said at the trial. Barclays denies any wrongdoing. “It’s great isn’t it, how they give us money and then we just sort of give it back to them,” McDonald said on the call. “Oh, be careful about that,” Jones told him. “You have to say that in the right way.” Under questioning Friday, Jones acknowledged that the timing of the loan request shortly before the investment was a red flag. “The two transactions ran in parallel with a tiny linkage between the two and that in itself was an area of concern,” he said. Jones resigned as the U.K.’s top banking lobbyist last month in anticipation of misogynistic comments he made about Staveley in 2008 being disclosed at the trial. He called her “thick as s--t,” made explicit comments about her appearance and speculated whether she had relationships with Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, a billionaire member of Abu Dhabi’s royal family, and Prince Andrew. After Jones apologized to Staveley, her lawyer let the matter drop and focused on his dealings with Jenkins and other Barclays bankers. The highlight of his two days of testimony has been his less-than-kind remarks about Jenkins. “Jenkins doesn’t wait for more than 20 minutes before he starts biting you, then it’s another 20 minutes he’s hitting and then after that you’re dead,” Jones joked with fellow banker Peter Bulbrook in another October 2008 phone call. In emails revealed during the criminal trial, the bank’s then Chief Executive Officer John Varley often praised Jenkins for the “extraordinary skill and tenacity” he showed, and told him he was a “magician,” an “anchorman” and an “ace.” Jones, however, wasn’t as full of compliments during his cross-examination this week. At first, he avoided saying anything negative about his former colleague, but changed tack Thursday when Staveley’s lawyer, Joe Smouha, reminded him to be honest. After that, he didn’t hold back. “You didn’t enjoy working for Roger Jenkins, did you?” Smouha asked. “And you did not like him personally, did you?” “I respected him,” Jones replied. “But if you’re asking me personally was Roger a friend of mine, no, he wasn’t.”