Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images Asian stocks were lower Thursday along with European and U.S. equity futures as investors parsed a slew of economic data in China that showed the path of economic recovery from the pandemic remains bumpy. The dollar edged higher. Equities in China were down about 1%. Shares were also lower in Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong and Australia. S&P 500 contracts slipped after a positive Wednesday session on signs of progress in developing a vaccine for the coronavirus. Twitter Inc. fell in after-hours trading after accounts of some of America’s most prominent political and business leaders were hacked. Crude oil declined, while Treasuries were little changed. The Thai baht retreated. While the Chinese economy returned to growth in the second quarter, retail sales in June missed estimates as they continued to contract, highlighting how confidence remains fragile. ”The problem is, this is still uneven,” as the economy reopens, Helen Qiao, chief greater China economist at Bank of America Corp., said on Bloomberg TV. “It is hard to see how China can remain on a firm footing at a time when the rest of the world is still coping with a very deep recession.” The reminder of the long road ahead to a full global recovery contrasted with the rush of optimism in financial markets earlier in the week due to progress in vaccine development. Meantime, President Donald Trump has indicated to aides that he doesn’t want to further escalate tensions with Beijing, and has ruled out additional sanctions on top officials for now, according to people familiar with the matter. His administration is considering a sweeping ban on travel to the U.S. by Chinese Communist Party members, though Trump may in the end reject the plan, according to a report. Here are some key events coming up: Elga Bartsch, head of macro research at BlackRock Investment Institute, examines the factors that could lead to a breakdown of the U.S. dollar. Source: Bloomberg These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Amena Saad, Sophie Caronello, Sarah Ponczek, Gregor Stuart Hunter, Joanna Ossinger, and Moxy Ying