Harvard University campus in Cambridge, Massachusetts. New federal guidelines that would block international students from remaining in the U.S. if their schools only offer online classes threatens to upend months of planning by American colleges trying to weather the financial hit from Covid-19. The visa rules disclosed this week by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency impose “a blunt, one-size-fits-all approach to a complex problem,” giving international students, particularly those in online programs, few options beyond leaving the country or transferring schools, Harvard University President Lawrence Bacow said in a statement. Colleges have begun rolling out plans for the fall semester, with many offering some form of limited in-person classes. Harvard said about 40% of students would return to its campus in Cambridge, Massachusetts, while all courses will be taught remotely. About 1.1 million international students were studying at U.S. colleges in the 2018-19 school year, according to the most recent data from the Institute of International Education. “This guidance undermines the thoughtful approach taken on behalf of students by so many institutions, including Harvard, to plan for continuing academic programs while balancing the health and safety challenges of the global pandemic,” Bacow said. On Monday, ICE announced its modified temporary exemptions for students taking online classes. “Nonimmigrant students within the United States are not permitted to take a full course of study through online classes,” the agency said in a statement. “If students find themselves in this situation, they must leave the country or take alternative steps to maintain their nonimmigrant status such as a reduced course load or appropriate medical leave.” Universities that rely heavily on international students, many of whom pay full price, are uncertain how many undergraduates will come if their college experience is altered by Covid-19 testing, masks and limited social interaction. Read more: International Student Visas at Risk as Schools Go Solely Online Students on existing visas who wish to remain in the U.S. must transfer to a school with in-person instruction or attend an institution that offers both remote and on-campus learning, according to ICE. “Iron-clad federal rules are not the answer at this time of great uncertainty,” said Ted Mitchell, president of American Council on Education, which represents more than 1,700 colleges and trade groups. Mitchell, a former undersecretary of the U.S. Education Department, called the regulations “horrifying.” — With assistance by Shaun Courtney