Screen capture of Townscaper Photo courtesy of Oskar Stalberg/Steam store Photo courtesy of Oskar Stalberg/Steam store When Oskar Stalberg announced the release of Townscaper a few weeks ago, he made a point of calling it a “toy” rather than a video game — because it has no goal apart from the sheer enjoyment and satisfaction you get from seeing a pretty town rising from the sea as you click. Even though Stalberg had figured people would enjoy his creation, he hadn’t predicted the following it would gain among both designers and game developers — and what they would create with it. So far, the $5.99 game has been met with overwhelmingly positive reviews (more than 2,600 versus 35 negative ones). Users say they enjoy Townscaper’s calm ambiance, with no background music apart from the occasional plips and plops of material falling into the digital ocean, and they derive particular pleasure from the simple mechanics of the game — left click: you build something, right click: you destroy it. From there, possibilities are infinite: the colorful buildings can be stacked or juxtaposed. The first click on the water canvas builds a foundation. Clicking on the same spot a second time builds a house, and a third and fourth time makes the building rise. The algorithms of the game handle the details: They add terraces, arches, bridges, gardens when spaces are enclosed, ladders to go down to the water and clotheslines between buildings. “Design-wise, Townscaper has a lot in common with hyper-detailed children books,” Stalberg said. “You can build big things, and then you can kind of look around saying ‘Oh there’s a detail here’, and ‘Oh if I build this, then it looks like that.’” Like in the works of children’s books illustrators Jan Loof and Sven Nordqvist, Townscaper has a multitude of small elements that make it all the more enjoyable — and hyper lively, even with no one in it. There are mailboxes, tiny Wellington boots on doorsteps, and seagulls on rooftops.  And unlike other games that have seen an incredibly high number of downloads during the pandemic, in which there are people to check on and goals to meet (The Sims 4), or in which there are turnips to purchase and friends to interact with (Animal Crossing), Townscaper offers no such features. The zen experience may add to its appeal in a time of uncertainty and worry — and so may the absence of characters. “That was not part of a conscious design decision,” Stalberg says. The buildings in Townscaper are inspired by the architecture of Scandinavian cities like Stockholm, Malmo, Uppsala and Copenhagen, where houses are often made of colorful brick and stone, but also by Italian hilltop towns. “People tend to say that [their creations] look like their favorite town or their hometown. I’m pretty sure that it doesn’t look like all of those places at once, but people project the little details that they would find onto it. So I try and make sure that the things I add are not too distinct, so that they could be a bit everywhere.” Townscaper buildings also bear a striking resemblance to the work of the Japanese Studio Ghibli, which Stalberg lists as another source of inspiration. The studio’s movie Kiki’s Delivery Service, by Hayao Miyazaki, also takes design cues from Stockholm.  Players are spending much more time on the game than Stalberg had anticipated — and building much larger structures. People are constantly reaching the size limit for towns, Stalberg says. They also have created replicas of real monuments and towns, such as the Mont Saint Michel and the Colosseum. Stalberg has carved out a niche for himself in the world of procedural art — or art that relies on math and algorithms for its creation. He has been in the video game industry for eight years now, working from Malmo, Sweden, and specializing in procedural landscapes and urban dioramas. Some of his previous work is accessible via a web browser for free and invites the user to modify a medieval looking planet, or a brick mansion. Stalberg hasn’t only coded urban dioramas — he’s also drawn some onto photographs. And he wants to make a game out of them one day, but until then we’ll have to use our imaginations: 