Households are bunkering cash amid the coronavirus outbreak, worried about the economy, their jobs and their future incomes. As near-term indicators pick up, central to the longer-term recovery is whether consumer worries fade enough to get people to spend again. The opposite -- continued saving -- could create a negative spiral of weaker demand, business closures and higher unemployment. Here are some of the charts that appeared on Bloomberg this week, offering insight into the latest developments in the global economy: The ILO’s baseline scenario sees the loss of the equivalent of 140 million jobs globally in the fourth quarter Source: International Labour Organization  The damage inflicted on the global labor market by the coronavirus is proving worse than initially estimated, according to the International Labour Organization. It’s also predicting that it will be impossible to repair in the second half of the year, which isn’t good news for incomes, livelihoods and economic growth. Payment patterns are changing, with evidence of cash hoarding Source: Bank for International Settlements Annual Economic Report 2020 Note: 31 Dec 2019 = 100 That backdrop appears to be driving cash hoarding, according to a study that seeks to debunk the notion that the pandemic was hastening the demise of paper money due to e-commerce or fears of infection. The Bank for International Settlements supported those findings, saying “precautionary holdings of cash have risen in some economies.” The job market made greater progress than expected last month digging out of a deep hole with a record 4.8 million jobs added. Yet optimism over the rebound was tempered by stubbornly high layoffs and a resurgent coronavirus outbreak across parts of the U.S. A closely watched measure of manufacturing jumped in June to the highest in more than a year, signaling the resumption of growth as pandemic-related lockdowns ended. ‘Have nots’ suffered disproportionately as virus changed buying patterns Sources: Bloomberg Economics, BLS, https://opportunityinsights.org Note: Inflation for the lowest (highest) 10% takes the alternative CPI basket for the lowest (highest) decile of household income before taxes from the 2018 Consumer Expenditure Survey With lockdowns and social distancing changing consumption patterns, official U.S. data may be understating inflation right now, especially for low-income households, according to Bloomberg Economics. Italian retail investors own only 3.1% of their country’s government bonds   Italy may have weathered a financial-market storm this year, but officials are already working on a new line of defense for the next crisis. That strategy involves enlisting citizens in the protection of the republic’s finances: The government is marketing a first fully retail-based security for sale next week. Around 42% of respondents are already open or will open around July 4 Source: UKHospitality  The U.K. hospitality sector is getting ready to open en masse this weekend after months of lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. More than half of businesses in an industry survey expect to open by the end of the month. Most will open within days of July 4, desperate to get revenue coming in again after the recent hit. April saw 700,000 women drop out of  Japan’s labor force Source: Ministry of Internal Affairs  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will fall well short of his pledge for women to hold 30% of the nation’s leadership positions this year as the coronavirus pandemic highlights the fragility of women’s employment gains. India's trade deficit with China has been widening since 2005 Source: Bloomberg  India’s economic ties with China run deep, making the recent escalation in political and trade tensions between the two powerful neighbors all the more worrying for businesses. South Africa's economy could contract more than 30% in the second quarter Source: Statistics South Africa, Reserve Bank  South Africa’s economy probably contracted more than 30% in the second quarter when restrictions to curb the spread of the virus shuttered almost all activity for five weeks, according to central bank forecasts. Emerging markets surprise with signs of manufacturing recovery Source: Markit, Caixin, Absa, Bloomberg Note: Some nations are yet to report PMI levels Purchasing managers’ indexes for June signaled a manufacturing rebound is under way in emerging markets. Even though most countries are still in the contraction zone, with the PMI readings below 50, the scale of improvement over May suggests economic activity is picking up. The big surprise: Turkey and South Africa had the strongest expansion. — With assistance by Vrishti Beniwal, Catherine Bosley, Sophie Caronello, John Follain, Marika Katanuma, Lucy Meakin, Alessandra Migliaccio, Prinesha Naidoo, Giovanni Salzano, Srinivasan Sivabalan, Shwetha Sunil, Yuko Takeo, Monique Vanek, Alexander Weber, Tom Orlik, and Bjorn Van Roye