Asian stocks traded mixed Thursday as investors weighed a signal from the Federal Reserve that more stimulus will be provided against a slew of earnings and the continued spread of the coronavirus. The dollar steadied. Shares climbed in Hong Kong and Sydney with stocks in Seoul given a boost as earnings at Samsung Electronics Co. topped estimates. Gains fizzled in Tokyo and stocks fluctuated in Shanghai. Futures on the S&P 500 Index edged lower after the gauge extended its July rally, with the Fed keeping rates near zero and pledging to use all of its tools to support a recovery from the coronavirus pandemic. European contracts ticked up. The Australian dollar slipped after new coronavirus cases in the country surged to a record. Treasuries were steady, while gold slipped. Investors also sifted through a batch of corporate earnings, with Qualcomm Inc. jumping in extended U.S. trading on a strong sales forecast. Technology giants Apple Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and Alphabet Inc. are due to report Thursday. As the pandemic continues to rage, governments are having to double down on the $11 trillion dollars worth of stimulus and unprecedented central bank support unleashed since the crisis began. The Fed has kept rates pinned near zero since the outbreak’s onset in March and rolled out several emergency lending programs geared toward fostering liquid trading conditions in financial markets. “The Fed’s large, looming presence and ability to act more if needed has provided a backstop for risk assets over the near term,” said Jason Pride, chief investment officer of private wealth at Glenmede. “The focus now shifts to the FOMC’s September meeting, when investors might expect more action,” he said, referring to the Federal Open Market Committee. Elsewhere, oil was steady after the biggest decline in U.S. crude inventories this year signaled a bright spot in a market weakened by Covid-19. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell speaks in a virtual news conference about the decision by the Fed’s policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee to leave rates unchanged. Here are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Rita Nazareth, and David Wilson