Asian stocks climbed along with U.S. and European equity futures on Wednesday amid optimism that progress is being made in developing a defense against the coronavirus. The dollar retreated. Shares in Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea and Australia gained and S&P 500 contracts rose as Moderna Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine produced antibodies in all patients tested in an initial safety trial. Chinese shares underperformed. Earlier, U.S. shares closed higher in a volatile session as investors weighed earnings reports against a continued rise in virus cases. Banks were mixed after JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported strong trading results, while Wells Fargo & Co. tumbled. Treasury yields rose. Risk asset volatility remains high, with equities largely treading water over the past month as worries about new virus cases are offset by optimism over stimulus spending and the economic recovery. Still, as new outbreaks appear around the world, officials are putting stricter measures in place to control the spread. “It’s this tug-of-war between the forward-looking assumption around a vaccine and treatment versus what is happening today as it relates to cases, the mortality rate and, more broadly, the spread,” said Matt Miskin, co-chief investment strategist at John Hancock Investment Management. Meantime, President Donald Trump said he issued an order to end Hong Kong’s special status with the U.S. and signed legislation that would sanction Chinese officials responsible for cracking down on political dissent in Hong Kong, the latest escalation in tensions between the world’s largest economies. Elsewhere, the Bank of Japan is widely expected to keep its main policy settings unchanged Wednesday, with attention likely to focus on its quarterly economic projections. Oil extended gains following a report showing U.S. crude stockpiles declined last week. Here are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sarah Ponczek, Claire Ballentine, and Cormac Mullen