A cyclist travels along the Thames Path in view of the Houses of Parliament in London on May 11. The U.K. will pump 3 billion pounds ($3.75 billion) into environmental projects as part of its plans to protect jobs in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The investment, which will include a 1 billion-pound program to make existing public buildings greener, will be formally unveiled when Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak delivers an update on his plans for the U.K.’s economic recovery on Wednesday, the Treasury said in a statement. Sunak is under pressure to introduce a meaningful package of measures after a speech last week by Boris Johnson failed to impress most economists and environmental groups, when the prime minister promised to accelerate just 5 billion pounds of planned infrastructure spending. The stakes have also been raised by a wave of job losses at major U.K. companies in recent days, prompting concern the nation’s unemployment rate could spike once the government’s furlough program -- which is currently supporting more than 9 million jobs -- starts to wind down next month. U.K. Businesses Expect to Cull Jobs Once Furlough Program Ends The chancellor has pledged to use Wednesday’s speech to focus on employment, ahead of a wider package of fiscal measures to boost the economy in a budget in the fall. The Treasury has already said Sunak will announce a 1.6 billion-pound rescue package for theaters, museums and music venues, as well as spending almost 1 billion pounds on tripling the number of traineeships nationwide and doubling the number of work coaches in job centers. Alongside a 1 billion-pound project to improve the energy efficiency of schools and hospitals, Sunak will confirm funding for a nature conservation program, announced by Environment Secretary George Eustice last week, which ministers say will create 5,000 jobs. He will also earmark 50 million pounds for a pilot project installing insulation and alternative heat sources in social housing, the Treasury said. Cutting heat loss from homes will be key to meeting the U.K.’s commitment to net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and could rapidly create jobs nationwide, according to the Committee on Climate Change, an independent panel which advises the government. Heating buildings produced nearly a fifth of the U.K.’s emissions last year and the industry remains off track to hit the mid-century target. The U.K. has yet to come up with a replacement for its main home insulation program, known as the Green Deal, which was scrapped in 2015 after low take-up levels. The CCC has urged ministers to introduce tax changes that favor low carbon heating over fossil fuels and to set a target to phase out new gas boilers by 2035. While Johnson has committed to a green recovery from coronavirus, the money announced by the Treasury is just a fraction of the 9.2 billion pounds he pledged for energy efficiency in his Conservative Party’s election manifesto last year. Even that full amount would not be enough to match the size of the challenge, according to the CCC, which is chaired by former Tory Environment Secretary John Gummer. The money pledged by the U.K. is also significantly less than amounts promised by neighboring European countries for environmental initiatives in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, campaigners said. “The German government’s pumping a whopping 36 billion pounds into climate-cutting, economy-boosting measures and France is throwing 13.5 billion pounds at tackling the climate emergency,” said Rosie Rogers, a political adviser at Greenpeace. “Three billion pounds isn’t playing in the same league.”