Jorge Leal loves a good rock show. After immigrating to Los Angeles from Mexico in the early 1990s, the teenage Leal sought out performances by “Rock En Español” bands hailing from both his new and first homelands. Enthralled by the rock, punk, and ska sounds that young Latin Americans were playing, he began writing reviews and interviews about the musicians as a student in college, and organized concerts himself. A few decades, degrees, and career turns later, Leal will soon start as a professor of Mexican American and Chicano history at the University of California, Riverside. Part of his academic research is building an archive, navigable on Instagram, of ephemera from that late 1980s and early 1990s music scene. Within the collection are numerous maps that point to the locations of the Rock En Español shows that promoters included on ads and flyers. Some hand-drawn, others Xeroxed, the maps are primarily meant for practical use. But to Leal’s eyes, they reveal how Latinx youth constructed their sense of community within greater L.A. “These were shows that were generally held in ephemeral, ad hoc music forums like auto shops, quinceañera shops, and backyards,” said Leal. “Latinx youth didn’t really have acceptance or welcoming within the predominant music venues on the Sunset Strip or other parts of Southern California, so they had to create their own.” Leal’s experience was similar to that of his peers in South and East L.A., he said: They found the city to be heavily segregated by race and language, and didn't feel welcome in whiter areas. Though the maps in Leal's collection zoom in to grids of just a few blocks, familiar landmarks give context about their place within the city, especially in contrast with maps that center downtown or Hollywood as L.A.'s cultural heart. In one, Interstate 110 through South L.A. recurs as a prominent boundary line. Another shows the downtown skyline as a distant feature on the horizon. In a third, East is the direction pointing up on the compass rose, instead of the customary North. “It’s as if they’re placing clues to people who were in their own communities,” Leal said. For example, white Angelenos at the time “would have a very different idea of where the city’s center of gravity lies.” Leal continues to collect historic maps and ephemera as part of his ongoing Rock en Español research. But he believes these maps could be valuable within contemporary conversations about community and place in South and East L.A., especially as some traditionally Latinx neighborhoods gentrify and longtime residents move away. Creating maps similar to these could “counter the white-washing of these communities, or the idea that these neighborhoods are only vibrant now that they are gentrified,” Leal said. By revealing features that don’t show up on official maps or formal urban plans, “they help us tell a much more layered story of the many communities that are part of L.A.” Bloomberg News climate and data reporters built a suite of flood risk maps that reveal the true depth of flood trouble that climate change presents to the continental United States. They used a first-of-its-kind database,  built by the First Street Foundation, which allows anyone in the 48 contiguous states to find out how much flood damage climate change could cause to their properties. That First Street data also finds that “federal maps underestimate the number of homes and businesses in significant danger by 67%,” my colleagues write. In their new maps of this elevated risk, familiar flood-prone parts of Texas and Florida make appearance. But so do states like West Virginia, Kentucky and Virginia, “none of which spring to mind when imagining the looming threat of rising waters." Flood risk mapping has always been riddled with problems in the U.S., from the way that the probability of flooding is communicated (e.g., “500-year floods” that happen every other year), to the climate data that the Federal Emergency Management Agency includes in its risk assessments (e.g., very little that accounts for climate change’s escalation of storms and sea level rise). To see the maps in context, read the story, and absorb this companion piece by reporter Leslie Kaufman, about how the government’s bad flood maps can hurt the poor. What do stylized house numbers say about a neighborhood? A writer at Slate walked more than 1,000 blocks to find out. (Slate) + The chilling future of "military augmented reality," brought to you by the Israeli Defense Forces. (Forbes) + A deep dive into the race to map the world's entire ocean floor. (Guardian) + Is this map lying? A guide to decoding the surfeit of coronavirus maps. (The Conversation) Laura Bliss