A deserted street in the Central Business District in Harare, Zimbabwe on July 22. Photographer: Xinhua News Agency/Getty Images Photographer: Xinhua News Agency/Getty Images Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Businesses in Zimbabwe’s capital were closed and the streets deserted on Friday, the day opposition and civil-society groups had called for mass protests against state corruption. There was sparse traffic on all major roads leading into Harare, with heavily armed soldiers and police manning roadblocks. While banks were shut, major retailers including OK Zimbabwe and Pick n Pay stores were open, with security forces monitoring shoppers. Previous protests, including those that took place in January 2019, turned violent with retail outlets looted by protesters. The authorities issued a warning to citizens against participating in the demonstrations. President Emmerson Mnangagwa labeled the protest plans an “insurrection” meant to overthrow his administration, which is presiding over inflation of 737%, food and fuel shortages and a collapsing local currency that’s led to demands by teachers, bankers and health-care workers to be paid in U.S. dollars. “The situation is under control and we are happy that we haven’t received reports of any incidents,” police spokesman Paul Nyathi said by phone. There were arrests of some protesters, including that of novelist Tsitsi Dangarembga and Fadzayi Mahere, a spokeswoman for the main opposition Movement for Democratic Change. Arrested!  At Borrowdale.  Ope it will be OK “The state is at war with its citizens,” Mahere’s lawyer, Chris Mhike, said by phone. “The right to protest peacefully against corruption and the national crisis in a safe, socially distant manner has been criminalized.” Another six people were detained in Harare, according to a statement on Twitter by Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights. The authorities have said lockdown regulations to curb the spread of the coronavirus prohibit mass gatherings. The southern African nation has 3,092 cases and 53 deaths from Covid-19 as of July 30, according to the Health Ministry. — With assistance by Desmond Kumbuka