A health care worker gives a nasal swab to a person at a Covid-19 testing site in Miami, Florida, on July 23. President Donald Trump cancelled the Republican presidential convention in Jacksonville. “There’s nothing more important than keeping our country safe,” he said. He said some convention business would still take place in North Carolina. U.S. coronavirus cases surpassed 4 million, doubling over a span of six weeks after infections surged in Sun Belt states. Deaths in California and Florida rose to records on Thursday. Roche Holding’s chief executive officer said a shortage of Covid-19 tests may last for months. About 400,000 airline workers globally have been fired, furloughed or told they may lose their jobs. South African state schools will close for four weeks as a preacautionary step. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Brazil reported 59,961 cases, its second highest on record, for a total of 2,287,475. The nation, with the worst outbreak after the U.S., recorded another 1,311 deaths for a total of 84,082. Last week the World Health Organization said Brazil’s outbreak had hit a plateau, and on Monday the nation reported 20,257 cases and 632 deaths. Mexico’s cases rose by a daily record of 8,438, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. Deaths climbed by 718, the data show, although Mexico’s government had yet to release its official daily figures. Despite the record rise in cases, health officials have maintained that the spread of the virus is slowing in much of the country. Yet Mexico overtook Italy last week to have the world’s fourth-most virus deaths. As many as one-third of Wisconsinites infected with the coronavirus during the past month were in their 20s, a result of young people gathering in bars, at parties, and attending summer barbecues, a state health official said Thursday. Andrea Palm, Department of Health Services secretary designee, reported 1,052 new cases of the Covid-19 disease were recorded in Wisconsin during the last 24 hours, the second-highest number on record. Of those positive cases, just 8% were among people 70 years of age or older. Fully 38% of the daily cases reported Thursday were people below the age of 30. President Donald Trump said he’s canceling the Republican convention scheduled for next month in Jacksonville, Florida, as the coronavirus outbreak continues to grow. “I told my team it’s time to cancel the Jacksonville, Florida component of the GOP convention,” Trump said at the White House. The decision comes as Trump’s voter support is plunging over his response to the pandemic. Florida posted 173 new deaths from the virus on Thursday, pushing the total to 5,518. Trump said some convention business would still take place in Charlotte, North Carolina. About 400,000 airline workers have been fired, furloughed or told they may lose their jobs due to the coronavirus, according to Bloomberg calculations. British Airways, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Emirates Airline and Qantas Airways Ltd. are among the carriers announcing thousands of dismissals and unpaid leave programs. Many more are expected in the U.S. after a ban on job cuts -- a condition of a $50 billion government bailout -- is lifted at the end of September. Delta Air Lines Inc., United Airlines Holdings Inc. and American Airlines Group Inc. have already warned about 35,000 employees that their jobs are at risk. The trio’s combined personnel losses could top 100,000 by year-end. Texas posted its third-worst virus death toll as fatalities surged in sparsely populated border regions. Statewide, 173 Covid-19 fatalities were reported, bringing the cumulative tally since the pandemic emerged to 4,521. In Hidalgo County, home to border towns such as McAllen, there were 33 virus deaths on Wednesday, a 9% increase, state health department data showed. Cameron County reported 11 new fatalities, an 8.7% jump. Combined, those counties account for less than 5% of the Lone Star state’s population but 12% of its Covid-19 deaths thus far. Hospital networks in both counties are straining. Hidalgo County’s caseload has expanded 12-fold this month, while Cameron’s has almost tripled, state figures showed. The statewide hospital census published on Thursday included only about 85% of the state’s facilities “due to a transition in reporting to comply with new federal requirements,” the health department said on its website. Confirmed Covid-19 cases in the U.S. increased 1.7% compared with the same time Wednesday to 4 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The number broke the 2 million mark on June 10, indicating that cases doubled over the past six weeks. The percentage gain in cases was in line the average daily increase of 1.8% over the past week. Deaths rose 0.9% to 143,701. South African state schools are closing for four weeks amid concern that they lack proper protocols and sufficient protective equipment to keep teachers and pupils safe, President Cyril Ramaphosa said in a televised address. “We have taken a deliberately cautious approach to keep schools closed in a period when the country is expected to experience its greatest increase in infections,” he said. “It is important to ensure that schools do not become sites of transmission.” California reported a record 157 new virus deaths, pushing its total fatalities to 8,027, according to state health data. Infections climbed by 12,040, second only to yesterday’s tally for the biggest daily jump. The increase was above the 14-day daily average of 9,077 and brought the total number of cases to 425,616, the highest in the U.S. The rate of positive tests over the past 14 days inched up to 7.6% from 7.4% the prior day. There were some positive trends: virus hospitalizations, which had been at a record, fell 4.8%, while the number of intensive-care patients dropped 3.9%. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said there was no need to impose new restrictions despite the record number of virus fatalities reported Thursday. “When the state reports that, that’s not saying those deaths occurred last night,” said DeSantis, a Republican. “Sometimes those can go back months.” He said measures already in place, like local mask requirements and social distancing, were helping contain the outbreak. “We’re not going to restrict businesses,” he said. China is showing readiness to organize the World Health Organization’s long-delayed study of the virus’s animal origins, said Mike Ryan, head of the WHO’s Health Emergencies Program. The WHO’s advance team is set to travel to Beijing soon. It’s not too late for the three worst-hit countries -- the U.S., Brazil and India -- to get the spread under control, according to Covid-19 lead technical officer Maria Van Kerkhove. Countries should consider restrictions and closures on bars and nightclubs, though blanket shutdowns aren’t necessary, she said. The coronavirus has driven people and businesses from New York City, and “we have to get them back,” Governor Andrew Cuomo said. Top restaurants, cultural institutions and Broadway remain closed, and increases in crime, homelessness and graffiti are “aggravating factors,” said Cuomo, a Democrat. In March and April, New York City was the epicenter of the pandemic in the U.S. On Thursday, the state reported 811 new cases, or a positive rate of 1.16%, and 13 deaths. U.S. testing czar Admiral Brett Giroir told Fox News “it is really impossible to track and trace 67,000 new cases a day, which probably means we have about 200,000 cases a day that are actually there.” He also said most Sun Belt states “are seeing the tide turn” after soaring cases and rising deaths in recent weeks. Confirmed cases in the U.S. have topped 70,000 four times in the last week, according to data from Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Arizona reported a positivity rate of 26.7% Thursday, a decrease from 30.5% on Wednesday. While the infection rate and case numbers remain high, public-health experts say the state may have reached a peak. The state Department of Health Services reported 2,335 new cases, an increase of 1.6% to a total of 152,944, below the 2% prior seven-day average. Arizona also reported 89 new fatalities, bringing the death toll to 3,063. Florida posted a record 173 new Covid-19 deaths among residents, pushing the cumulative total to 5,518, according to a state Department of Health report Thursday. The state had a cumulative 389,868 Covid-19 cases, up 2.7% from a day earlier, compared with an average increase of 3.3% in the previous seven days, according to the report, which includes data through Wednesday. Cumulative hospitalizations of Florida residents rose by 401, or 1.8%, to 22,644. The new rate of people testing positive for the first time increased to 12.3% for Wednesday, from 10.5% on Tuesday. The number of confirmed coronavirus infections in South Africa doubled over the past 17 days to surpass 400,000. More than 13,000 cases were reported for a second consecutive day on Thursday, bringing the cumulative total to 408,052 -- the world’s fifth highest. The government is keeping a close eye on the eastern KwaZulu-Natal province, which appears set to follow a trend of surging infections seen in the Western Cape, Gauteng and Eastern Cape regions, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize told lawmakers. The number of Covid-19 patients requiring intensive-care unit beds in the Houston area dropped 16% to 733, the lowest in almost three weeks, according to the SouthEast Texas Regional Advisory Council. Virus patients accounted for 39% of the region’s ICU beds as of late Wednesday, down from 45% a day earlier, the council said on its website. The tally covered Harris County, which includes Houston, and eight surrounding counties. AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc., the world’s largest cinema chain, delayed the reopening of its U.S. theaters to mid- to late August after Hollywood studios again pushed back their biggest movies. It had planned to reopen them July 30, hoping to catch at least some of the traditional summer-movie season with a few major releases. Emirates has come up with a unique way to boost confidence in air travel. The Dubai-based carrier on Thursday offered to cover the medical expenses of its passengers should they be diagnosed with Covid-19 while away from home. Emirates specializes in the type of long-distance flights that have been hit hardest by national lockdowns and fears about contracting the disease. The company will pay expenses of up to 150,000 euros ($174,000) and quarantine costs of 100 euros a day for 14 days. The U.K. government announced an additional 100 million pounds ($127 million) for a facility to scale up production of any successful Covid-19 vaccine. The Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult Manufacturing Centre, which will be based in Essex, east of London, will be able to produce millions of doses a month when it opens in December 2021. Another site west of the capital is already under construction. Officials say it will be able to produce enough doses for the whole U.K. population by next year. More than 10,000 health workers have been infected in Africa, a sign of the challenges facing medical staff on the front lines of the outbreak, according to a report from the World Health Organization. The data are based on the 40 countries in Africa that have reported infection rates. There are now more than 750,000 cases of Covid-19 on the continent and more than 15,000 deaths. South Africa is among the worst-hit countries in the world. The WHO cited inadequate access to personal protective equipment. Health workers may also be exposed to patients who don’t show signs of the disease and are being treated for a range of other things. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Joe Carroll, Keshia Clukey, Renata S Geraldo, Michael Smith, Michael Cohen, Jordan Fabian, Shruti Singh, Misyrlena Egkolfopoulou, Stephen Joyce, and Rachel Gamarski