Khalifa Haftar Libya’s oil industry was thrown into more confusion with military commander Khalifa Haftar, a key player in the nation’s civil war, saying he would continue to blockade ports and fields, barely a day after the state energy company said exports could resume. Haftar’s Libyan National Army had allowed a tanker to load about 730,000 barrels of crude from the eastern port of Es Sider on Friday, with the cargo bound for Italy. That was an exception and more shipments will be banned until the warring sides agree to distribute oil money more fairly and to audit the Tripoli-based central bank, which handles energy revenue, the LNA’s spokesman, Ahmed al-Mismari, said in a televised statement posted on Facebook. The National Oil Corp., also based in Tripoli, lifted force majeure on all terminals and fields on Friday, shortly before the Aframax vessel Kriti Bastion entered Es Sider. The NOC didn’t immediately respond to questions on whether force majeure, a legal status protecting a party from liability if it can’t fulfill a contract for reasons beyond its control, would be reimposed. The reversal reflects the chaos that has engulfed Libya, an OPEC member and home to Africa’s largest crude reserves. Haftar’s eastern-based forces are vying for control of the country with the United Nations-recognized government, which is located in Tripoli in the west and led by Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj. The two sides are poised to square off near the central city of Sirte, in what could be a decisive battle. Turkey, which backs Sarraj, said he won’t agree to a ceasefire until Haftar’s fighters retreat from Sirte and the nearby region of Jufra. Haftar’s supporters include Russia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates. Haftar’s blockade in January sent Libyan crude production crashing to about 100,000 barrels a day from 1.2 million and has cost the country $7 billion in lost revenue, according to the central bank. Libya’s output was as high as 1.6 million barrels daily in early 2011 before an uprising ousted longtime leader Moammar Qaddafi and led to the civil war. Libya’s oil facilities have been at the heart of the conflict, with different groups repeatedly closing them. The shutdowns and lack of maintenance have severely damaged fields and wells. Repairs will cost hundreds of millions of dollars and take months even if fighting stops soon, NOC Chairman Mustafa Sanalla said in an interview last month. READ: Haftar’s Losses Cloud Outlook for Libya’s Battered Oil Industry Any increase in supply from Libya could undermine efforts by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies to rebalance the oil market and prop up prices amid the coronavirus pandemic. The group, known as OPEC+ and led by Saudi Arabia and Russia, agreed on record cuts to production in April. Libya is exempt from those because of its strife.