Photographer: Philip Fong/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Philip Fong/AFP via Getty Images Stocks advanced globally alongside U.S. equity futures after European leaders reached a deal on a landmark stimulus package. The dollar slipped. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index opened higher on gains in tech and auto shares. A gauge of risk in the region’s investment-grade debt dropped to the lowest since February. Equities rose across Asia, with Australia outperforming after the government boosted job subsidies. S&P 500 contracts climbed after the benchmark turned positive for the year and the Nasdaq 100 jumped to a record on demand for companies like Amazon.com Inc. and Zoom Technologies Inc. that benefit from more people staying at home due to the pandemic. Treasuries were steady, crude oil edged higher and silver rose for a third session. “The market, particularly tech stocks, is rallying on both good news and bad news, that tells us it’s all about momentum and not about the facts,” said Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty. “There are concerns we could see significant pullbacks before we make further gains, but at the moment you can’t stand in front of the train that is the Nasdaq 100 Index.” Investors are keeping an eye on Washington, where lawmakers are starting to hammer out the next virus relief plan. Meanwhile, euro-area leaders agreed on a stimulus package to pull their economies out of the worst recession in memory and tighten the financial bonds holding their 27 nations together. Monetary and fiscal “tapering will not occur until we have significant health progress,” Mariann Montagne, a portfolio manager at Gradient Investments, said on Bloomberg TV. Bob Doll, Nuveen Asset Management chief equity strategist, talks about his investment philosophy and the types of stocks he likes. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Gregor Stuart Hunter, and Joanna Ossinger