Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. China received more than half of the money poured into emerging-market exchange-traded funds last week as investors bet on a recovery. U.S.-listed ETFs dedicated to Chinese stocks and bonds received $276.3 million in the week ended July 24, leading emerging-market funds to record a third weekly inflow of $485.3 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The move reduced total outflows this year to $16.1 billion. The $2.6 billion KraneShares CSI China Internet Fund, known as KWEB, led the move with its largest weekly inflow since mid-January, when optimism over an initial U.S.-China trade accord stoked sentiment. The $135.7 million inflow into the internet ETF underscores a recovery in investor appetite for risk and the expectation that the pandemic and lockdown measures accelerated digital trends in the developing world. New flows to U.S. listed emerging-market stocks and bonds ETFs Source: Bloomberg Note: Includes ETFs that invest across emerging markets as well as those that target specific countries. Data is weekly. ETFS that invest in stocks from developing nations added $334.8 million last week, beating the $150.5 million increase for bond-focused peers, the data show. Among bond-focused developing-nation ETFs, the $15.6 billion iShares JP Morgan USD Emerging Markets Bond ETF, or EMB, brought in $188.8 million, while the Invesco Emerging Markets Sovereign Debt ETF, known as PCY, suffered a $35.7 million redemption. Click here for Bloomberg’s ETF screening applications. Following are tables detailing net flows for emerging-market ETFs in US dollars. The data include the holdings-weighted allocations from multi-country funds, as well as country-specific funds(figures in USD millions unless otherwise stated): Click here for Bloomberg’s ETF Excel library. Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Follow us  @middleeast for more news on the region. This story was produced with the assistance of Bloomberg Automation.