Editor's note to our new readers: Welcome to Navigator, a new weekend edition of our daily newsletter. Here, we’ll feature stories and adventures for urban explorers every other Saturday. Until today, Navigator was a standalone newsletter, but we’ve merged it with CityLab Daily to bring you more of the content you love. Tell us what you think at citylab@bloomberg.net. This Independence Day weekend in America, the mood for many is anything but celebratory. Patriotism has fallen to a record low, with less than a quarter of nonwhite people saying they are "extremely proud" to be American, according to a recent Gallup poll. Indeed, as we observe a day dedicated to the nation's freedom, millions are confined to their homes because of government failure to control a deadly disease, and the nation is confronting the reality that Black Americans remain bound by decades of racism. Even the grand fireworks displays that typically punctuate the holiday have been dimmed by the virus. Amid a resurgence of coronavirus infections, with daily new cases reaching records in some states, officials have canceled festivities, shut down beaches and bars, and are urging people to stay home. And 80% of community firework shows are canceled to avoid gathering of large crowds. Yet sparks may still fly, thanks to a recent spike in backyard fireworks this year, both legal and illegal. Fireworks vendors recently told CNBC that consumer sales jumped 200% to 300%, with more expected leading up to July 4. Already, they've been going off throughout June, leading to an explosion of noise complaints, in a narrative that perhaps best exemplifies the convergence of issues that have so far defined 2020. As my colleague Kriston writes: This summer’s Great American Fireworks Conflagration has everything: It’s a culture story about cooped-up teens finding release during the summer of shutdown. It’s a postcard from the Covid economy, with the pyrotechnics industry offering fire-sale discounts in the wake of so many canceled Fourth of July shows. And it’s a multi-city portrait of the nation’s Karens, those much-memed embodiments of white entitlement who demand police intervention over every trifling annoyance. But centrally, the fireworks discourse offers a test case in the national conversation over policing, with reformers and abolitionists arguing that most police work should be handed off to social workers even as residents dial up quality-of-life noise complaints to police faster than dispatchers can log them. There are still other ways the fireworks predicament tells a story about this year. Some governments are taking it as yet another opportunity to adapt, scattering their fireworks displays across town so people can watch from their homes, or hosting "drive-in" shows and inviting people to watch from their cars. Meanwhile, in Washington, D.C., President Donald Trump is moving forward with plans to blast off some 10,000 fireworks, inviting hundreds of thousands of spectators to the National Mall — masks not required. America, as it turns out, remains ever so stubbornly a nation of pyro enthusiasts, especially in the name of tradition, and as residents jittery from being cooped up for months are yearning for a burst of release. Whatever you do this holiday weekend, stay safe! And if you're one of those people playing with fireworks, be careful with that hand sanitizer. -Linda Poon What will   cities look like in a post-pandemic world? ¤ If you're looking for light reading this weekend, how about your city's budget? ¤ We need a new approach to social distancing because we're all craving human contact. ¤  RV capital Elkhart, Indiana, is the new vacation destination. ¤ France's new mayors want to make the country greener. ¤ Bring back dead malls as affordable housing. ¤ How businesses are DIY-ing the coronavirus recovery. ¤ Who gets to take over the streets when everything moves outside? ¤ There's still hope for e-scooters. ¤ Mid-sized cities seeking tech workers get a pandemic-era boost. ¤ Hip-hop artists in Tulsa are resurrecting Black Wall Street's legacy. ¤ Why the long face? Police horses may be first to go as cities reconsider police budgets. ¤ The forces that will reshape America's cities. ¤ Thinking of traveling this summer? Read this first. (Vox) ¤ When the coronavirus crashes a social elite's "fabulous backyard soiree." (Washington Post) ¤ South Korea's first female barber is still cutting hair, even during the pandemic. (Los Angeles Times) ¤ For my daughters, the pandemic was a relief from race-related stress at school. Then George Floyd was killed. (The New Yorker) ¤ A bittersweet moment for Black bookstore owners. (NPR) ¤ The spirit of rebellion grows during America’s summer of protest. (The Ringer) ¤ That healing jazz thing on a porch in Brooklyn. (New York Times) ¤ The best books on the histories of U.S. policing, according to experts (New York Magazine) ¤ @kreshna stops in front of Jakarta's iconic Selamat Datang ("Welcome") Monument; @dontgiveafiddlestickeither photographs a man resting in Jaipur; @birdonaledge watches birds take flight at New York City's Rockaway Beach; @citzenofur captures a scenic neighborhood in Ankara. Showcase your photos with the hashtags #citylabontheground and #citylabwindowview, and we'll feature it on CityLab’s Instagram page or pull them together for the next edition of Navigator.