Asian stocks slipped Tuesday, following their U.S. peers lower amid fresh Sino-American tensions and concern over the economic impact of rising coronavirus cases. Crude oil fell. Shares in Tokyo, Sydney and Seoul saw modest declines. S&P 500 Index futures edged up after the benchmark briefly touched its highest since the pandemic sell-off in March, before closing lower. The Nasdaq hit another record before finishing in the red. Sentiment was hit on signs the virus is throttling reopening plans in states like California, and on news the Trump administration rejected China’s expansive claims in the South China Sea. Treasuries and the dollar were little changed. Traders are bracing for reports this week from a slew of companies that have yet to provide guidance on the impact of the virus. The focus is on whether the profit outlook will back up investor bullishness fueled by central bank and fiscal policy support to counter the impact of the pandemic. “There is a risk that the divergence between a gloomy economic outlook and unexpectedly strong returns from equity markets is reconciled by some pull-back in asset prices rather than a surge in economic optimism,” Chris Iggo, chief investment officer for core investments at AXA Investment Managers, said in a note. “There is a case for caution.” Meanwhile, relations between the U.S. and China were further strained with Washington rejecting Beijing’s claims in the South China Sea. That reversed a previous policy of not taking sides in territorial disputes in the region and escalated tensions on yet another front. Investors will also be parsing data for readings on the economic recovery. China’s balance of trade is due Tuesday ahead of gross domestic product data on Thursday, while figures showed Singapore’s economy plunged into recession last quarter as an extended lockdown shuttered businesses and decimated retail spending. Elsewhere, oil declined below $40 a barrel ahead of an OPEC+ meeting at which the group may announce plans to start tapering historic production cuts. Gold was steady. Chris Grisanti, chief equity strategist and senior portfolio manager at MAI Capital, discusses his firm’s market approach amid the coronavirus pandemic, and offers his earnings outlook. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sarah Ponczek, and Claire Ballentine