European Union leaders agreed on a landmark 750 billion-euro ($860 billion) stimulus package after marathon negotiations. Hong Kong is bracing for another wave of infections, while new cases in the Australian state of Victoria surged. Japan saw no need for an emergency declaration, even as daily cases in Tokyo climbed back above 200. German virus figures increased slightly. New York City entered its next phase of reopening and California reported slowing growth in hospitalizations. Trump administration officials and Congressional leaders are poised to start talks on another U.S. stimulus plan. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. The Swiss watch industry faces a 30% drop in exports this year as the pandemic slashes international travel and key markets outside China still grapple with the outbreak. The Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry gave the forecast after shipments declined 36% to 6.9 billion francs ($7.4 billion) in the first half. A full-year decline that big would be the worst performance in decades. Computer mouse and keyboard maker Logitech International SA raised its full-year profit forecast after its fiscal first-quarter sales and earnings easily topped estimates. The company is experiencing a significant boost in demand from customers working from home purchasing new equipment. Flavor and fragrance maker Givaudan SA topped estimates as pandemic lockdowns drove up demand for home staples such as cleaning products and snack foods. U.K. government borrowing soared to almost 130 billion pounds ($165 billion) in the first three months of the fiscal year amid the towering cost of supporting the economy through the coronavirus crisis. The Office for National Statistics said Tuesday that the budget deficit stood at 35.5 billion pounds in June alone, leaving debt at almost 100% of GDP. Britain's budget deficit could exceed 370 billion pounds this year Source: Office for Budget Responsibility Note: Forecast adjusted for July 8 stimulus package, which is not included in the latest OBR projections Germany recorded a slight increase in the number of new coronavirus cases amid an easing in the country’s infection rate. There were 590 new cases in the 24 hours through Tuesday morning, bringing the total to 203,325, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The reproduction factor of the virus declined to 1.15 on Monday, from 1.25 the day before, according to the latest estimate from the Robert Koch Institute. Tokyo had 237 new coronavirus cases Tuesday, TV Asahi reported, citing Governor Yuriko Koike. That compares with 168 cases reported Monday. While officials in Japan have so far resisted reimposing restrictions, concern about the outbreak in Tokyo has prompted the government to exclude the city from a campaign to subsidize domestic tourism. All air travelers to China are required to provide results of coronavirus tests conducted within five days of their departure, according to a joint government statement on the Civil Aviation Administration website. Foreign passengers are required to apply to a Chinese Embassy or consulate for a declaration of their health status. The move is aimed at cutting the risk of cross-border spread of the coronavirus, it said. The U.S. will have to come up with alternative ways to detect Covid-19 infections as the current swab testing capacity won’t be able to meet demand during the fall flu season, the Financial Times reported, citing Quest Diagnostics Inc. It will be impossible to increase coronavirus testing capacity to cope with the surge in demand, James Davis, executive vice president of general diagnostics at the U.S. laboratory giant, told the FT in an interview. EU leaders agreed on an unprecedented stimulus package to pull their economies out of the worst recession in memory and tighten the financial bonds holding their 27 nations together. The agreement, in the early hours of Tuesday after more than four days of acrimonious negotiations in Brussels, required the unanimous approval of the member states and represents a victory for German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron, who drafted an early outline for the proposal in May. The emergency fund will give out 390 billion euros of grants and 360 billion euros of low-interest loans. European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen talk about the agreement at a press briefing in Brussels. ( Source: Bloomberg) Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told members of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party that there’s no need to declare a state of emergency now, public broadcaster NHK reported, without attribution. The government will watch the situation closely and bolster testing capabilities to try and prevent the coronavirus from spreading to the elderly, it said. Australia’s Victoria state Covid-19 cases surged to 6,289 as authorities struggle to contain a second wave of infections. State Premier Daniel Andrews said 374 new infections had been detected in the past 24 hours, the second worst daily rise. A further three people had died from the virus, bringing the state’s death toll to 42. Health authorities in Victoria state are grappling to bring the second-wave of infections under control after placing Melbourne, Australia’s second-largest city, into lockdown about two weeks ago. Victoria accounts for more than half of Australia’s Covid-19 infections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China reported 11 new coronavirus cases, with 8 coming from the province of Xinjiang. Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, is offering free tests amid fears of an outbreak that has led to a lockdown of housing compounds and the closure of malls and hotels. The city of more than 3.5 million people reported its first infection in five months on July 15. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.3% as compared with the same time Sunday to 3.79 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase was below the average daily gain of 1.9% over the past week. Deaths rose 0.2% to 140,716. Watch: California Governor Gavin Newsom says coronavirus hospitalizations in the state increased 16% over the past 14 days, a slowdown from recent weeks. (Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Chris Kay, and Cormac Mullen