Halting the coronavirus pandemic will require an effective vaccine to be available worldwide. As governments look for ways to ease lockdowns safely and restart economies, the global push to find an inoculation that will protect against the contagion is accelerating. More than 120 vaccines are currently under development from companies including Merck & Co., AstraZeneca Plc and China’s CanSino Biologics Inc. It's possible that we may end up with multiple vaccines. How soon any of them may be ready remains unclear, though. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Anthony Fauci has suggested we may have a vaccine as early as the end of the year, but most vaccines take years to hit the market. Scaling up production to manufacture billions of doses will also take time. And for anyone who assumes a widely available shot is a foregone conclusion, HIV research might serve as a cautionary tale: After more than 30 years and 30 million deaths, there’s still no approved HIV vaccine. Developing an immunization takes hundreds of millions of dollars in investment, and very few projects result in success. Global manufacturing and distribution, meanwhile, will cost billions more. However, the economic cost of the coronavirus will be in the trillions; the cost to the global economy could be $2.7 trillion in lost output. Daily life — and the global economy — may not fully return to normal until an inoculation against coronavirus is developed, manufactured in mass quantities and distributed worldwide. The pandemic will only end with the establishment of herd immunity. That occurs when enough people in a community are protected from a pathogen that it can’t take hold and dies out, and can be achieved in two ways. One is if a large portion — perhaps 60% — of a community develops resistance as a result of infection. This brings with it the likelihood of additional deaths and an increased burden for health-care services. The other route to herd immunity is vaccination. Researchers would have to develop a vaccine that proves safe and effective against the coronavirus, and health authorities would have to get it to a sufficient number of people. Vaccines take longer to develop than drugs designed to alleviate symptoms, in part because they must be proven to be extremely safe since they're given to healthy people. Until the spread of Covid-19 is brought under control, individuals and industries around the world — ranging from major airlines and retailers to family-run restaurants — will continue to suffer.  We’ll probably end up with a few coronavirus vaccines, not just one. Want more? Receive updates as this story continues to evolve. We’ll send alerts directly to your e-mail inbox on only the most important developments.