Follow Bloomberg on  Telegram for all the investment news and analysis you need. European stocks and U.S. futures rebounded from Wednesday’s tumble, though gains were modest as record coronavirus infection rates emerged across some of the world’s biggest economies. Earnings exceeded estimates for telecoms firm BT Group, oil producer Royal Dutch Shell Plc and drinks giant Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV. Shares of all three climbed. Credit Suisse Group AG slipped after profit missed analyst estimates. S&P 500 contracts recouped less than one-third of the benchmark’s 3.5% slide on Wednesday. The euro slipped for a fourth session before the European Central Bank’s policy decision later Thursday, with new coronavirus curbs from Berlin to Madrid boosting chances of preemptive monetary stimulus. Treasuries and European bonds held steady. Even with Thursday’s gains, global equities are still headed for the worst decline since June. Investors point to new lockdown measures and a trillion-dollar American stimulus plan failing to jell before the Nov. 3 election. Record one-day virus cases surfaced in Italy, Spain and Germany, where Chancellor Angela Merkel said authorities can no longer track infections back to their sources, opening the door to exponential growth. “Market sentiment is turning, with investors buffeted by U.S. election uncertainty and now economic worries from rising Covid-19 cases across Europe,” said Kerry Craig, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management. “These short-term forces are well beyond the control of individual investors, underscoring the need to maintain balance through the immediate uncertainty.” Elsewhere, the pound strengthened versus the euro as European Union and U.K. negotiators made progress toward resolving some of the biggest disagreements, raising hopes that a Brexit deal could be reached by early November. Oil was steady after tumbling more than 5% on concern rising infections will sap demand. These are some events to watch this week: Equity markets should rally in to the year end, says Jeffrey Sacks of Citi Private Bank. Source: Bloomberg Here are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh