Protesters demonstrate against police brutality in Lagos, Nigeria, on Oct. 13. Photographer: Benson Ibeabuchi/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Benson Ibeabuchi/AFP via Getty Images Nigeria’s army said it’s prepared to help the authorities maintain law and order, amid ongoing protests against police brutality that have left at least 10 people dead. “The Nigerian Army is ready to fully support the civil authority in whatever capacity to maintain law and order and deal with any situation decisively,” spokesman Colonel Sagir Musa said in an emailed statement Thursday. It warned “all subversive elements and trouble makers to desist from such acts as it remains highly committed to defend the country and her democracy at all cost.” A Nigerian youth seen waving the Nigerian national flag in support of the ongoing protest against the police brutality. Photographer: BENSON IBEABUCHI/AFP via Getty Images READ: Renewed Protests Shutter Schools in Nigeria’s Commercial Hub The statement signals a potential escalation in the standoff between protesters and the government of Africa’s biggest oil-producing nation. While most previous protests in Nigeria have been quashed by the security forces, this time round the government has prohibited the use of force against marchers, ordered the release of all arrested participants and disbanded the controversial Special Anti-Robbery Squad. The government’s approach so far may have been prompted by the scale of the demonstrations -- the largest in a decade -- and widespread defiance against measures instituted to try and quell them. The protests erupted on Oct. 5 after a video purportedly showing the killing of a civilian by the anti-robbery squad was shared on social media. Demonstrations have taken place in the capital, Abuja, the commercial hub of Lagos and the oil hub of Port Harcourt, among other cities. The hashtag #EndSARS has trended on social media, with Twitter Inc. Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey highlighting the protests in a tweet on Wednesday. #EndSARS  https://t.co/fcgQIOQYSS — With assistance by Dulue Mbachu