A federal appeals court ordered Minnesota election officials to segregate mail-in ballots that arrive after Nov. 3 in case a future court order requires such votes to be purged from the count. Republicans are challenging Minnesota’s plan to accept mail-in ballots up to a week after Election Day as long as they’re postmarked by Nov. 3 -- an extension the state put in place to account for an expected flood of absentee voting during the pandemic. The decision Thursday by the U.S. Court of Appeals in St. Louis is a setback for Democrats, whose nationwide effort to ensure ballots mailed by Election Day get counted has had mixed success, including at the U.S. Supreme Court. Late-arriving ballots must be “removed from vote totals in the event a final order is entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining such votes to be invalid or unlawfully counted,” the court said in a 2-1 decision. A group of Democratic-led states had filed a brief defending the state’s plan, arguing the extended deadline encourages safer voting during the pandemic and assures more ballots will be properly counted in light of persistent U.S. Postal Service delays -- a factor “over which voters have no control,” they said. “The consequences of this order are not lost on us,” the court said Thursday. “We acknowledge and understand the concerns over voter confusion, election administration issues, and public confidence in the election.” The appellate panel ordered a lower court judge to grant an injunction sought by two Republican electors in Minnesota who argued the ballots should be set aside. As in other suits over rules for mail-in ballots, Republicans have argued the Minnesota’s secretary of state violated the constitution by changing election rules that are set by the state legislature. In a dissenting opinion, Justice Jane Kelly said the election official was within his right to adjust the rules during the pandemic through an accord that settled a state-court lawsuit. “Minnesota’s legislature has expressly delegated some of its lawmaking authority to the Minnesota Secretary of State where elections are concerned,” wrote Kelly, a Barack Obama appointee. “Notably, the Minnesota legislature has expressed no opposition to the decree, or to its extension of the deadline for absentee voters to submit their ballots.” The GOP’s argument that changing the deadline would also lead to a massive fraud had been rejected by the lower court, citing evidence that the rate of such fraud in the state since 1979 is just 0.000004%. Read more: Minnesota’s 0.000004% Voter Fraud Cited as GOP Suit Tossed