President Donald Trump’s decision to walk out of a ‘60 Minutes’ interview didn’t deter viewers. Trump has a narrow lead over Democratic nominee Joe Biden in the latest poll in Texas. And Trump is pleased about being ahead in Montana, where his lead in the reliably Republican state is small compared with 2016. There are eight days until Election Day and 49 days until the Electoral College meets. Other Developments: The interviews with Trump and Biden on “60 Minutes” on Sunday attracted 16.8 million viewers, the largest audience for the program since it featured the adult film actress Stormy Daniels in March 2018, CBS said. The episode Sunday also featured interviews with Vice President Mike Pence and running mate Kamala Harris. The viewership on Sunday was well above the show’s average audience of 10.3 million. The episode featuring Daniels, who alleged that she had an affair with Trump, attracted more than 22 million viewers. Trump walked out of the taped interview with Lesley Stahl, and the White House later released clips of it before it was aired, complaining that it was “fake and biased.” Stahl was asking the president when he plans to release his health care plan and what it contains when he ended the session. -- Emma Kinery Trump leads Biden by 4 percentage points in Texas in a New York Times/Siena College poll released Monday, after three other polls in the past week found the candidates statistically tied in the Republican stronghold. Trump leads Biden 47% to 43% in the Times poll, which has a margin of error of 3.8 percentage points. The poll, conducted Oct. 20-25, shows Trump losing ground with key demographics of his base: the president won white college-educated voters in Texas by a margin of 24 percentage points in 2016; The Times poll shows him leading with the group by 2 points. Hispanic voters in Texas still largely back Biden 57% to 34%, but the former vice president’s margin is narrower than Hillary Clinton’s in 2016. Hispanic voters in the poll report they voted for Clinton by a margin of 60% to 29%. Texas hasn’t elected a Democrat statewide since 1994 and hasn’t voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Jimmy Carter. WATCH: President Trump says Joe Biden’s energy plan “is an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania’s energy sector.” Source: Bloomberg) On Sunday, a poll by the Dallas Morning News/UT Tyler found Biden leading Trump by 2 percentage points among registered voters, 46% to 44%, and by a margin of 3 percentage points among all likely voters, 48% to 45%. Both results were within the margins of error. A Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday found the candidates tied 47% to 47% among likely voters. -- Emma Kinery Trump flaunted being ahead in the polls in Montana, a state that hasn’t gone for a Democratic presidential nominee since 1992. At a campaign event in Allentown, Pennsylvania, on Monday, Trump said he’s doing well in polls in three traditionally Republican states. “In Montana we’re so far up they don’t even -- they shouldn’t even have the election,” he said. “Likewise in Utah, so far up we’re plus 12, plus 15. In West Virginia, we’re 20 up -- 20 points up. These are just -- they came out today.” But Trump’s advantage in Montana is much narrower than in 2016, when he won the state with a 20-point lead. A recent poll by the New York Times/Siena College showed him ahead of Biden by just 6 percentage points. With a competitive Senate race and an open governor’s race on the ballot as well, the state is also showing signs of a high-turnout election, with early votes already accounting for 70% of the total number of ballots cast there in 2016. -- Justin Sink Flush with cash, the Biden campaign isn’t just running a lot of ads, it’s running a lot of different ads. On Monday alone, the campaign released ads featuring an Iraq War veteran talking about Biden’s support of mine-resistant vehicles, a Pennsylvania veteran with post-traumatic stress disorder and the parents of a cancer survivor talking about Obamacare. It also released ads featuring Biden talking about being a “union man,” an older woman talking about Social Security and a Pittsburgh iron worker talking about infrastructure as Bruce Springsteen songs play. Biden Using Multiple Ads to Keep Message Fresh: AdWars 2020 It also released separate ads featuring a Michigan bartender, an Arizona hair salon owner, a Michigan truck driver, a former Wisconsin dairy farmer and a restaurant owner talking about the effects of the coronavirus pandemic on their jobs. Biden can make all these ads because his blockbuster fundraising left him with $107 million in cash more than Trump in the final weeks of the campaign. WATCH: Bloomberg’s Kevin Cirilli previews the week ahead for both candidates. Source: Bloomberg) Biden will visit Atlanta on Tuesday, as a new poll shows the presidential race is essentially tied in Georgia. In a survey by the University of Georgia’s School of Public and International Affairs released Monday, 47% of likely voters backed Biden and 46% supported Trump, within the margin of error. Georgia has not voted for a Democratic presidential nominee since 1992. The survey also showed competitive Senate races, with Democratic challenger Jon Ossoff essentially tied with Senator David Perdue, 46%-45%, but still below the 50% threshold to avoid a runoff in January. In Georgia’s second Senate race, 34% backed Democrat Raphael Warnock, pastor of the Ebenezer Baptist Church; 21% supported Representative Doug Collins and 20% backed incumbent Senator Kelly Loeffler, with 14% saying they were undecided. The poll of 1,145 likely voters in Georgia was conducted Oct. 14-23. It has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points. More Americans have voted early already than did before the 2016 election. With eight days until the election, 59.4 million people have cast ballots in-person at early voting centers or by mail, according to the U.S. Elections Project. That’s more than the roughly 58 million who voted before Election Day in the last presidential ballot. It’s not yet clear whether the surge in early voting will reflect higher turnout overall or whether most early voters would have cast ballots on Election Day regardless. The pool of early voters skews heavily Democratic, however, with 49% of returned ballots in states that identify party ID coming from Democrats, 28% from Republicans and 22% from independents, according to the Elections Project. A prominent conservative newspaper endorsed Biden Sunday, the first time it has backed a Democrat in more than a century. In its endorsement, the editorial board of the New Hampshire Union-Leader praised Trump’s judicial appointments, tax policy and accomplishments in the Middle East but said that his handling of the national debt and the coronavirus and his demeanor made him a bad choice. “President Trump is not always 100% wrong, but he is 100% wrong for America,” the editorial board wrote. The Union-Leader endorsed former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie in the 2016 Republican presidential primary, then broke with tradition in the general election to back Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson. Trump, whose Atlantic City casino hosted Wrestlemania and who had cameos at several wrestling matches, may be in the WWE Hall of Fame, but it’s Biden who has racked up the endorsements lately. In a one-minute ad, former pro wrestler Dave Bautista, best known for playing Drax the Destroyer in “Guardians of the Galaxy,” says Trump is “someone who portrays himself as a tough guy.” “It’s easy to lie to people. It’s easy to bully people. That does not make you a tough guy,” he says. Former pro wrestlers Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson and Mick “Mankind” Foley have also endorsed Biden, although the president still has the support of WWE CEO Vince McMahon, whose wife, Linda, served in Trump’s Cabinet. Trump is holding several rallies a day in key battleground states. Biden travels to Georgia on Tuesday. — With assistance by Justin Sink, and Emma Kinery