Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images Asian stocks rose with U.S. futures Monday amid optimism about some progress on stimulus talks in Washington. Treasuries retreated. S&P 500 Index futures gained after the gauge closed higher for a third week on Friday. Shares advanced in Japan, Australian and South Korea. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi set a Tuesday deadline for more progress with the White House after lengthy discussions at the weekend with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. The dollar was steady and Treasury yields ticked higher. The pound strengthened after a report officials were prepared to water down controversial Brexit legislation in a move that could revive failing talks with the European Union. Elsewhere, oil fluctuated ahead of an OPEC + meeting. The New Zealand dollar rose after Jacinda Ardern’s emphatic election victory. Chinese data due Monday is expected to show a broadening economic recovery from the pandemic hit. While Pelosi said a pre-election deal remains possible, her team sent conflicting signals after setting a 48-hour deadline for progress on Saturday night. President Donald Trump renewed his offer to go beyond the dollar amounts now on the table. Pelosi and Mnuchin spoke at length Saturday night about efforts to finalize a stimulus package to help the U.S. weather the affects of the coronavirus, especially as signs emerge of rising economic strain for millions of Americans and an acceleration in coronavirus infections. “It seems that the market is optimistic that indeed stimulus will follow whether that is tax cuts under a Trump presidency or spending under a Biden presidency,” Ben Emons, Medley Global Advisors managing director, said on Bloomberg TV. The U.S. had a fifth consecutive day of infections over 50,000. In Europe, Italy’s cases swelled to a daily record as the government prepares new containment measures. Economists expect Chinese third-quarter gross domestic product to have climbed 5.5% from the same period a year earlier. Retail sales, investment and industrial production are all forecast to pick up in September. Here are some key events this week: These are some of the main moves in markets: