European stocks dropped to a five-month low and U.S. equity futures slumped as rising coronavirus infections and tougher lockdowns added to worries about the economic hit from pandemic. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank more than 2% after German Chancellor Angela Merkel proposed closing bars and restaurants for a month to curb the spread of the virus. The selloff across Europe was broad, with auto and construction shares seeing the steepest declines. Haven assets, such as Treasuries and the yen, rose. S&P 500 futures sank 1.5% and the VIX Index, a measure of U.S. equity volatility, climbed to the highest level since June. “We’ve been warning investors over the last few days in particular to maybe pare back a little bit of their strong risk position,” Laura Fitzsimmons, JPMorgan Australia’s executive director of macro sales, said on Bloomberg TV. “As you see the odds start to wane a little bit more for Biden, maybe that continues a bit more. We all remember four years ago when markets were very much surprised.” Markets in the U.S. and Europe have slumped this week as virus cases surge and American lawmakers fail to agree on an economic aid package before the election next week. Analysts are also warning about increased volatility in markets ahead of the vote, with some saying that a contested election is still a possibility. In Asia, stocks fared better. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was almost flat on Wednesday, and markets in South Korea and Shanghai posted modest gains. In China, indicators tracked by Bloomberg showed the recovery continued to display mixed signals while remaining broadly steady in October. Elsewhere, oil retreated back below $38 a barrel in New york after an industry report pointed to a bigger-than-expected increase in U.S. crude stockpiles. Microsoft Corp. slipped in premarket trading. The company’s first-quarter revenue climbed a better-than-projected 12%, strengthened by corporate demand for cloud-computing services to support customers’ remote workers and move more of their business online. These are some events to watch this week: Here are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Michael G Wilson, Adam Haigh, and Greg Ritchie