A man prays during an outdoor Sunday mass at the Old Town Square in Prague on Oct. 26. Photographer: Michal Cizek/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Michal Cizek/AFP via Getty Images Germany is looking at closing restaurants and prohibiting large events as infections continue to surge across Europe. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson faces growing discontentment within his party over lockdown measures imposed on the country’s northern regions. Hong Kong will ease some social distancing rules and announced plans for mandatory testing of specific groups. India’s daily infections fell below 40,000 for the first time in more than three months. Eli Lilly & Co. said a U.S.-run clinical trial of its experimental antibody therapy will end while AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine candidate produced a robust immune response in elderly people. New research from the U.K. suggests antibody responses may diminish over time. The latest surge in U.S. coronavirus cases sent the S&P 500 Index to its biggest drop in a month. An infection spike that started with younger Americans is now moving to older communities. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Angela Merkel aims to close restaurants and ban large events. The German chancellor intends to propose tougher national restrictions to the country’s 16 state premiers at a meeting on Wednesday, according to German media reports. Unlike the previous lockdown in spring, schools and daycare centers would stay open unless they are in regions with exceptionally high infection rates. Hong Kong will allow more people to sit at the same table in bars and restaurants as well as letting them stay open later. From Friday, restaurants will be allowed to stay open until 2 a.m. with six people permitted at a table, up from four, Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan told a briefing on Tuesday. Bars also will be open later with the limit on patrons doubling to four per table. Hong Kong also eased its rule mandating face masks for people exercising at indoor venues, though a four-person limit on public gatherings will stay for another week. Bulgaria reported record numbers of new cases, deaths and patients in intensive care, putting fresh pressure on the country’s health-care system. The Balkan country reported 2,243 daily coronavirus cases, the first time new infections topped 2,000, as well as 42 deaths. The numbers come as Prime Minister Boyko Borissov is recovering at home after testing positive for Covid-19. A plan to open up air travel between Dubai and London is ready and could be implemented once approved by the respective governments, according to the head of the emirate’s airport operator. Testing and quarantine requirements have been agreed by hubs and airlines, Paul Griffiths, chief executive officer of Dubai Airports, said in an interview. Whether they move forward lies “in the hands of politicians,” he said. Negotiations with the U.K. to enable easier journeys between the two destinations is one of several such conversations Dubai Airports is having around the world, according to Griffiths. More than 50 of Johnson’s Conservative members of Parliament have demanded a clear route out of lockdown. In a letter to the prime minister, the MPs warned that his strategy of targeting local areas with restrictions was disproportionately damaging the economies of northern regions and widening economic disparities. Politically, many of the areas under the strictest measures are parts of the country that helped give the Tories a majority in last year’s election. India reported 36,470 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, marking its lowest daily increase since July 17. The country now has 7.95 million cases, trailing only the U.S. in total infections. India’s coronavirus-related death-toll is now 119,502, according to government data. The Philippines will keep loose movement restrictions in its capital through November after the nation recorded fewer infections last week. Metro Manila will stay under general community quarantine, where most businesses are allowed to operate, President Rodrigo Duterte said in a briefing aired Tuesday. The government this month shortened curfew hours in Manila and eased the stay-at-home order to further reopen its economy. The Philippines has the second-worst outbreak in Southeast Asia, with over 371,000 cases as of Monday. It reported fewer coronavirus cases last week amid a slowdown in testing as the Red Cross halted most of its Covid-19 operations after the state health insurer failed to pay. Cadila Healthcare Ltd., one of two Indian drugmakers racing to develop an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, is in talks with potential partners to ramp up production capacity if its candidate passes human clinical trials. The Ahmedabad-based firm is looking to hire contract manufacturers for an additional 50 million to 70 million doses of its plasmid DNA vaccine, on top of the 100 million that will come from its own capacity, according to Managing Director Sharvil Patel. Obtaining and delivering a safe vaccine is a major priority for Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a nation with the world’s largest number of infections after the U.S. Antibody responses to the coronavirus may diminish over time, according to a study that showed the natural defenses waning in Britons who’d previously been exposed. Among 365,000 randomly selected U.K. adults who tested themselves at home, 4.4% had antibodies in September, compared with 6% in June, according to research published Tuesday by Imperial College London and polling service Ipsos MORI. The study suggests that antibodies, a marker of exposure to the coronavirus, may not be lasting in all people who have been infected, adding to other research indicating that immunity may be finite. A paused clinical trial of an Eli Lilly & Co. experimental antibody therapy won’t resume after federal researchers concluded the drug likely wouldn’t help hospitalized Covid-19 patients with advanced cases. The National Institutes of Health researchers who initially halted the trial due to a safety concern, however, didn’t find that the treatment caused any harm, which may bode well for a regulatory review of the antibody’s use in a different setting. — With assistance by Robert Fenner, Rodney Jefferson, and Slav Okov