We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned of a “very tough” winter but said significant progress on a coronavirus vaccine is possible by December. He said he knows people feel angry over the way his government has handled the pandemic as the country reported a record number of cases. A Spanish poll found 70% said the country should avoid returning to a strict lockdown and 85% said bickering among Spanish authorities has undermined efforts to curb the virus spreading. Officials in Germany, which is paying the most toward the European Union’s coronavirus recovery fund, are worried by how Spain is coping with the pandemic. Donald Trump has made substantial progress since being diagnosed with coronavirus and his medical team remains cautiously optimistic, although he is not yet out of the woods, his physician Sean Conley said in a statement posted on Twitter. U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo will shorten his Asian trip this week amid the positive virus tests at the White House. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Bickering among Spanish authorities has undermined efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19, according to 85% of people polled by GAD3 for ABC newspaper. At the same time, 52% of respondents said that residents themselves were too lax in protective measures. Weaknesses in the health-care system contributed to Spain’s worse rates of containment, 84% of those polled said. Seven in 10 people said the country should avoid returning to a strict lockdown like it had in March through June. Officials in Germany, which is paying the most toward the European Union’s coronavirus recovery fund, are worried by how badly Spain is coping with the pandemic. The recent resurgence in infections since summer ended has exposed partisan divisions, with center-right officials in Madrid challenging new restrictions imposed by the Socialist national leadership. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he knows people feel angry over the way his government has handled the pandemic, but warned that coronavirus will make for a “very tough” winter, with difficulties lasting through Christmas and beyond. Johnson conceded that the government’s encouragement for people to eat out over the summer may have helped to spread the virus, and also that its test and trace system needed to improve. He said on the BBC’s Andrew Marr program it is possible that there will be significant progress on a vaccine by December and that scientists told him the outlook for the pandemic will be radically different by next spring. The U.K. reported 12,872 new cases on Saturday, the highest level ever and almost double the number from Friday. The Department of Health said due to a technical error, cases not counted in previous days were added to the total. Russia added 10,499 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours for a total of 1.215 million, the country’s task force for combating the disease said. Moscow had 3,327 new infections. There were 107 new deaths were reported in Russia , taking the overall death toll to 21,358. Poland reported 1,934 new cases and 26 deaths in last 24 hours. The total number of cases reached 100,074 and total deaths are 2,630. Tunisia’s Prime Minister has enacted new restrictions to curb the spread of the coronavirus in a move that is likely to further squeeze the economy. The measures include a ban on public gatherings and reduced work hours for the public sector, Hichem Mechichi said late Saturday on state TV. The North African nation has seen a rapid rise in cases in recent weeks. Germany’s total cases surpassed 300,000 as the reproduction value rose above 1.0 for the first time in four days, indicating that the spread is growing. Health Minister Jens Spahn announced plans for fast tests in hospitals and nursing homes. Details will be sorted out by Oct. 15, he said in an interview with Bild am Sonntag newspaper. In efforts to enforce hygiene rules, Munich has taken in 1.2 million euros from 9,100 fines on people not abiding by coronavirus restrictions, according to a report in Welt am Sonntag newspaper. Munich was the most aggressive among seven cities surveyed by the newspaper, which had a total of more than 35,000 pandemic-related infractions. New policies should be more targeted than current large-scale social restrictions as Indonesia seeks to combat the coronavirus without further impacting the economy, President Joko Widodo said. Southeast Asia’s largest economy is poised to report first annual gross domestic product contraction since 1998. At the same time, Covid-19 cases have risen to about 4,000 cases a day. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo will shorten his trip to Asia as the coronavirus spreads among some of the White House’s top officials. Pompeo and his wife have both tested negative. He will visit Tokyo Oct. 4-6 to meet foreign ministers of four of the Indo-Pacific region’s biggest democracies, according to a State Department statement. His earlier itinerary included trips to Mongolia and South Korea. Aide Nick Luna, who serves as personal attendant to President Donald Trump, has tested positive to coronavirus, according to people familiar with the matter. Luna, who runs Oval Office operations, joined Trump on his trip to Cleveland for the presidential debate on Tuesday and was also on the Minnesota flight where adviser Hope Hicks first started experiencing symptoms. Australian Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said the budget, which is scheduled to be released Tuesday, assumes a coronavirus vaccine is developed in the next year. A vaccine in 2021 is likely to signal a return to international travel and foreign tourist spending, which would be positive for the economic outlook, Frydenberg said. Trump has made substantial progress since being diagnosed with coronavirus, physician Sean Conley said in a statement posted on Twitter. While his medical team remains cautiously optimistic, he is not yet out of the woods, according to the statement. Trump has completed a second dose of Remdesivir without complication. He remains fever-free and off supplemental oxygen. Beachgoers in Melbourne, which has been the center of Australia’s coronavirus outbreak, have been warned to obey restrictions and social distancing rules or risk having popular swimming areas closed. Victoria Police patrol at St Kilda beach in Melbourne on Oct. 3. Photographer: Darrian Traynor/Getty Images Victoria state, which only last week ended a curfew aimed at slowing the spread of the virus, said police will increase patrols and issue fines as warm weather lures crowds to the beach. Biden tested negative on Friday and said he will take another one on Sunday. Biden is tested regularly and the results of all of those will be released, according to the campaign. Brazil’s new cases slowed to 26,310 after two days of increases, as the nation finished the week with the fewest infections since early June. Total cases are 4.9 million, the Health Ministry reported. Another 599 people died, a decline from the previous day and roughly a third of the number reported at the peak of fatalities in July. Total deaths are now 145,987. Donald Trump’s first full day in the hospital was marked by conflicting accounts about his fight against Covid-19, with his doctor giving an upbeat view of the president’s condition that was contradicted by a person familiar with the matter who said Trump’s vital signs over the past 24 hours were cause for concern. The president grew angry Saturday upon learning that a downbeat version of his health had emerged, with associates telling Trump that the person who shared this portrayal was White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, according to people familiar with the discussions. Dr. Sean Conley takes a question during a press conference outside of Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Oct. 3. Photographer: Rod Lamkey/CNP/Bloomberg White House physician Sean Conley told reporters earlier Saturday that he is “extremely happy” with the president’s progress and that Trump had experienced “mild cough and some nasal congestion and fatigue” on Thursday but “all of which are resolving and improving.” “I think I’ll be back soon,” Trump said in a video tweet. He said he was feeling better after treatment. pic.twitter.com/gvIPuYtTZG — With assistance by Heather Burke, Virginia Van Natta, Yueqi Yang, Jordan Fabian, Arsalan Shahla, Christian Reiter, Josh Wingrove, Luke McGrath, Stacie Sherman, Henry Meyer, Maciej Martewicz, Todd White, Tim Ross, and Joe Mayes