Photographer: Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images Photographer: Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, tested positive for coronavirus infection, raising the prospect of another outbreak within the White House. Pence has tested negative and will continue to campaign for President Donald Trump, his office said. Bloomberg News reported that one of Pence’s closest political advisers, Marty Obst, also was infected by the virus. New York and New Jersey reported the most new Covid-19 cases since May, while daily infections across the U.S. reached a record of more than 83,000. Trump blamed the surge on testing. New Jersey’s Phil Murphy extended a public health emergency for another month. Illinois had the most new cases since the pandemic began. France reported a third straight day of record cases and its positive-test rate jumped by almost a full percentage point, while Italy, faced with anti-curfew protests, considers tighter restrictions. Australia’s Victoria state, the epicenter of the nation’s outbreak, reported no new deaths and seven cases, as Melbourne awaits lab tests before deciding whether to ease rules. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Covid-19 cases per 100,000 people over the past 14 days Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  Those in the tourism industry in the Canary Islands are breathing a sigh of relief after the U.K. and Germany opened up travel corridors here, throwing a lifeline to a sun-soaked archipelago reliant on winter tourism. The coronavirus pandemic has laid waste to a Spanish tourism industry that has seen foreign visitor numbers slump by almost three-quarters in the year through August. The U.K. and Germany easing travel to the Canary Islands gives the archipelago a chance to salvage some of its business supplying northern Europeans with a dose of winter sunshine. Lifting of the U.K. restrictions takes effect Sunday following Germany’s move. The U.K. announced Thursday that it would no longer make Britons returning from the region undergo two weeks of quarantine. That requirement remains in force for the rest of Spain, where virus cases have surged back to peak levels and hospitalizations are rising. Indonesia’s capital, Jakarta, is extending some social-distancing curbs until Nov. 8 as the coronavirus rate slows, according to a statement from the Jakarta province on its website. The effective reproduction rate of the virus -- a measure of the spread among the population -- has eased to 1.05 from 1.06 on Oct. 12. The government can revoke the transition period and impose stricter curbs if there is a significant infection surge, the statement said. Since Oct. 12 Jakarta has been in a transitional phase from tighter restrictions. Residents can work from offices and dine in restaurants as long as the capacity is limited to 50%, while gyms, cinemas and tourism sites can operate at a maximum 25% of capacity. President Trump acknowledged Marc Short’s infection as he exited Air Force One early Sunday after a campaign rally. “I did hear about it just now, and I think he’s quarantining,” the president told reporters. “He’s going to be fine but he’s quarantining.” Both Obst and Short have developed minor symptoms of Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus, according to people familiar with the matter. The infections of members of the vice president’s inner circle -- as well as Pence’s exposure -- risk overshadowing the closing week of Trump’s re-election campaign. Trump has repeatedly said in recent days that the country is turning a corner on the pandemic, even with a spike in infections. Vice President Mike Pence has tested negative for the coronavirus and will continue to campaign for President Donald Trump’s re-election, according to a statement from the vice president’s office announcing chief of staff Marc Short’s diagnosis. It said Pence was considered “essential personnel” under Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines. In the statement, Pence’s office acknowledged that he’s considered a close contact of Short under infection tracing procedures. Pence traveled to Florida to deliver a campaign speech in Tallahassee on Saturday evening after learning of Short’s diagnosis, according to people familiar with the matter. Short, who tested positive earlier in the day, did not accompany him. Pence is scheduled to campaign on Sunday in Kinston, North Carolina. The chief executive officer of Yes Bank Ltd., who helped the lender emerge from India’s biggest-ever bailout, is girding for impact from the pandemic. The coronavirus outbreak has “created a problem” on the loan book, even as progress has been made on fixing key drawbacks such as weak governance, fund-raising challenges and declining deposits, Prashant Kumar said in a phone interview. It’s “very, very difficult to estimate the impact,” Kumar said. “With the fundamental issues taken care of, we want to control costs and increase profit to deal with any adverse impact on the credit due to the pandemic.” Mike Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, tested positive for coronavirus infection this week, bringing the pandemic into the vice president’s inner circle. Earlier Saturday, Bloomberg News reported that one of Pence’s closest political advisers, Marty Obst, had also been infected by the virus, adding further to the cases in and around the White House. Short is Pence’s top aide, a constant presence in his company who frequently acts as a public spokesman for the vice president. Obst tested positive on Wednesday, according to people familiar with the matter. Short was diagnosed on Saturday, according to a statement Pence’s office provided. Singapore will hold its first significant business conference this week since the coronavirus pandemic halted such activities in the city-state, amid efforts to restart its economy. The Singapore International Energy Week starts Monday with 250 participants and on-site staff, and hundreds more are slated to join virtually. Singapore has become a hub for oil and natural gas traders and -- in a normal year -- hosts dozens of conferences, roundtable discussions and happy hours for company officials to mingle and broker deals. While places such as China and Taiwan have restarted business events from automotive shows to tech conferences with hundreds of participants, the Singapore event will be the city-state’s first step to reopening a key sector. Those who are attending the conference at the Marina Bay Sands are required to take a Covid-19 test, with results within 30 minutes, and must download a contact-tracing app. Texas is asking the U.S. Army to make available a military medical center at Fort Bliss for non-virus patients to ease the strain on hospitals in El Paso, the state’s worst new virus hotspot. Governor Greg Abbott made the request of the federal government on Saturday to open more hospital beds for Covid-19 patients, according to a statement. It was unclear whether the request was immediately granted. The El Paso area’s active-case tally is now second only to that of Houston, the fourth-largest U.S. city, according to state health department figures. One-third of El Paso’s hospital beds are occupied by virus patients and there are just 12 open intensive-care beds to cover a region with almost 900,000 inhabitants. Mexico reported 6,025 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 886,800 according to data released by the Health Ministry Saturday night. Deaths rose by 431 to 88,743. Among them was Mexico Senator Joel Molina of the state of Tlaxcala, El Financiero newspaper reported. Molina was a member of President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador’s party, Morena. The senator tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago, El Financiero said, citing other party members. Melbourne will wait until current coronavirus test results are analyzed before it takes steps to ease restrictions, Victoria state premier Daniel Andrews said. About 1,000 swabs are being processed from tests linked to a cluster in northern Melbourne and they should be reviewed over the next couple of days, Andrews said on Sunday. Regional Victoria will see some easing of lockdown requirements from 11.59 p.m. Tuesday. “This is not anything other than a cautious pause,” he said. “This is not a setback, it is simply waiting and being led by the data, being led by the science, and following public health advice.” Health workers carry blood samples after conducting a Covid-19 seroprevalance test study in Colombia on Oct. 24. Photographer: Joaquin Sarmiento/AFP via Getty Images Colombia’s coronavirus cases reached 1 million, Johns Hopkins University data showed. It’s the second Latin American country to reach that milestone in less than a week, and has the eighth-highest number of infections globally. Brazil’s death count declined for the fifth straight week, despite a slight increase in cases reported in the seven days that ended Saturday, according to data from the Health Ministry. Still, infections are running at roughly half the peak week in July of 319,653. The last two week’s cases are the lowest since May. On Saturday, the nation reported 26,979 cases for a total of 5,380,635, the most after the U.S. and India. Another 432 people died, for a total of 156,903. Australia, which is considering reopening state borders in time for Christmas, had seven new cases and no deaths in the state of Victoria, the epicenter of the nation’s outbreak. The current 14-day rolling average across the state stands at 4.9. Authorities have been focused on cutting that figure to below five as a condition for easing restrictions in the state capital of Melbourne. California, which trails just Texas and New York in fatalities, reported 49 new deaths, for a total of 17,311. It also added 5,945 new cases Saturday, after recording 6,141 on Friday, the biggest single-day jump in two months. The Golden State has a total of 892,810 cases. The rate of positive tests is 2.9%, the highest in almost a month. Texas, the state with the highest death toll after New York, added 81 new fatalities Saturday, bringing the total to 17,456. It also added 6,125 new cases, for a total of 858,071. US President Donald Trump at a campaign rally in Circleville, Ohio on Oct. 24. Photographer: Mandel Ngan/AFP via Getty Images Ohio reported 2,858 a record new infections, marking the fifth consecutive day with more than 2,000 cases. Governor Mike DeWine tweeted that 92.8% of people in Ohio live in counties with a “high” or “very high” rate of exposure and spread. “We pushed the coronavirus down before and we can do it again,” he wrote. President Donald Trump held a rally Saturday in the crucial swing state 10 days before the election in Pickaway County, which has the state’s second-highest infection rate per 100,000 residents. New York reported 2,061 new cases on Saturday, the second day this week with more than 2,000 and the most since May 20. The state, which was an early center of the U.S. outbreak, is battling clusters of infection in New York City’s Brooklyn and Queens boroughs and upstate. Governor Andrew Cuomo said 511 cases were from those clusters and 1,550 from the rest of the state. Another 11 people died of virus-related causes. New York’s hospitalizations rose to more than 1,000 for the second time this week, reaching levels last seen in June. France reported 45,422 new cases, the third consecutive day of record increases and a rise of more than 3,000 from the previous day. Ambulance crew move a patient inside a home for the elderly in Paris, Oct. 24. Photographer: Nathan Laine/Bloomberg The virus test positivity rate increased to 16% from 15.1% on Friday, according to France’s health agency. New Jersey reported its highest daily count since early May, when it was among the first and hardest hit in the U.S. outbreak. The state reported 1,909 cases, a 0.9% rise compared with an average 0.5% increase in the previous seven days. Total cases are 227,339. Governor Phil Murphy extended a public health emergency for 30 days and issued an “urgent update” on Twitter. “We haven’t seen daily case numbers this high since May. We’re still in the midst of a pandemic and need everyone to take this seriously,” he said.U.K. New Cases Stay Above 20,000 (11:45 a.m. NY) The U.K. reported 23,012 new cases, marking the fifth straight day with more than 20,000. About a quarter of the U.K.’s 854,010 cases have been reported in the past 10 days. Schools for older children might have to be closed if cases continue to increase at the same rate, epidemiologist Neil Ferguson told the BBC on Saturday. Another 174 people died within 28 days of a positive test. London police said anti-mask protesters at Oxford Street and New Scotland Yard are in breach of government guidelines on social distancing. Manchester police fined a man 10,000 pounds ($13,000) for holding a party attended by 50 people. The Sunday Times also reported that the government is considering cutting the length of time a person has to self-isolate to 10, or even seven days, from the current 14. Italian police officers clash with protesters who are against the government restriction measures in Rome, Oct. 24. Photographer: Andreas Solaro/AFP via Getty Images Italy is considering its strongest restrictions yet since its national lockdown and could ask citizens not to leave their towns as cases continue to rise. New infections rose to 19,644 cases Saturday, again setting a record. Patients in intensive care units rose to 1,128. The government is expected to approve further virus containment measures as soon as Sunday and is considering additional economic support even as the threat of tighter restrictions prompts protests. Naples, Italy’s hardest-hit city, imposed a nighttime curfew on Thursday, which contributed to violent protests. Protesters poured into the streets of Naples, Italy after a night-time coronavirus curfew was imposed.More @business: https://t.co/zLCNC8ag7E pic.twitter.com/IXhqJItlcE — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Adam Haigh, Stanley James, Eko Listiyorini, and Jennifer Jacobs