Vice President Mike Pence will hit the campaign trail in the final weeks. Some Republican senators are starting to distance themselves from President Donald Trump. And Trump made fun of Democratic nominee Joe Biden for saying he’d “listen to the scientists.” There are 15 days until the election and 56 days until the Electoral College meets. Other Developments: Pence is heading out on the campaign trail to urge Republicans to come home, again. As he did in the waning weeks of the 2016 campaign, the former Congressman and governor is boosting his travel and the number of campaign rallies with 15 days left until the election, his chief of staff Marc Short said Monday. Pence will focus heavily on Midwest battleground states. Pence also will travel to Maine’s second congressional district on Monday and then to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, his tenth trip this year to that crucial swing state. He’ll visit Pennsylvania again on Friday, Short said. Next week, Pence and Trump may begin to appear at rallies together, likely starting at an event in Pennsylvania on Oct. 26, Short said. The campaign is relying on Pence’s background as the former governor of Indiana in a push to court Midwest voters. Pence, in those places, has been touting the Trump administration’s agenda on trade and manufacturing. “It’s a message that resonates in the Midwest. The primary focus will be the economy and trade on those trips,” Short said. In Pennsylvania, Pence has attacked Biden and his running mate Senator Kamala Harris, on previous comments they’ve made about not supporting fracking, which has prompted a natural gas boom. Biden has said he won’t ban fracking, but won’t support new fracking operations. -- Mario Parker One Republican senator won’t vote for Trump’s Supreme Court nominee. Another says he disagreed with Trump on key issues, privately. And a third said Trump has “flirted with White supremacists” and “kisses dictators’ butts.” The remarks from three Republican senators from very different states show the president’s polling woes are starting to hurt his otherwise lock-tight standing among GOP senators. At a debate Thursday night, Senator Susan Collins of Maine again said she would not vote for Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett because of the timing. Trump tweeted that winning over Collins was “not worth the work!” In a recent interview with the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Texas Senator John Cornyn said he’s disagreed with Trump on China, the deficit and coronavirus stimulus, but kept his concerns private. Trump has not tweeted about him. And Nebraska Senator Ben Sasse lashed out at Trump in a telephone town hall last week, saying he “spends like a drunken sailor,” “mocks evangelicals behind closed doors” and refused to take the coronavirus pandemic seriously. In response, Trump called him “stupid and obnoxious” and “an embarrassment to the Great State of Nebraska.” All three senators are on the ballot in November, with Collins considered endangered, Cornyn still the favorite but facing an unexpectedly strong opponent, and Sasse cruising to re-election. Trump did an impression of Biden saying he would “listen to the scientists” as he mocked his opponent’s approach to the pandemic. During a rally Sunday in Carson City, Nevada, Trump argued that cities and states should “open up” and have fewer restrictions designed to limit the spread of the coronavirus and claimed Biden would restrict them further. “He’s going to want us to lock down,” he said, straightening his spine and putting his hands at his side as he affected a serious demeanor. “He’ll ‘listen to the scientists.’” Biden has repeatedly said he would “listen to the scientists” on how to handle the pandemic and criticized Trump for denouncing public health measures like restrictions on shops and restaurants and mask-wearing requirements. Trump went on to say that if he had listened to the scientists the country “would be in a massive depression.” But Biden spokesman Andrew Bates said that Trump’s attacks on science made the economic situation worse. “Donald Trump tanked the strong economy he inherited from the Obama-Biden administration by continually discounting and attacking warnings from the scientific and medical experts working around the clock to save lives,” he said. The unemployment rate in September was 7.9%, down from a high of 14.7% shortly after the pandemic began in April, but still above the 4.7% it was when Trump took office in January of 2017. -- Josh Wingrove Trump keeps joking he won’t come back to states that don’t vote for him. The Biden campaign’s latest ad encourages him to do so. The minute-long ad features Trump saying at recent rallies in Iowa, Minnesota, Ohio, Florida and North Carolina that he won’t return. “I may never have to come back here again if I don’t get Iowa,” Trump said last week in Des Moines. “I’ll never be back.” The ad ends with Trump’s remarks on Friday that if he doesn’t win “maybe I’ll have to leave the country, I don’t know.” After a beat, the ad shows text on the screen: “What he said.” Third-party candidate Bill Bledsoe dropped out of the South Carolina Senate race earlier this month and endorsed Senator Lindsey Graham. But he’s the star of a new ad -- from Graham’s Democratic challenger. An ad from former state Democratic Party chairman Jaime Harrison warns voters to be wary of Bledsoe, who it says is “too conservative for South Carolina.” It then notes that he opposes all abortions and gun control laws and supported Trump “from day one.” All of those things, of course, would be a draw for some of the state’s most conservative voters, who have long been skeptical of Graham. Bledsoe also ran as a third-party candidate against Senator Tim Scott in 2016, receiving 2% of the vote. A New York Times/Siena College poll last week showed Graham up 6 percentage points over Harrison, with a 4.5-point margin of error. Hmmm... Jaime Harrison has a new ad airing in Charleston today. "But beware, right-wing Constitution Party candidate Bill Bledsoe is also on the ballot. Bledsoe opposes all abortions and Bledsoe supported Trump from Day One...Bledsoe's too conservative for South Carolina." pic.twitter.com/rW4rLQDq3o — With assistance by Mario Parker