Photographer: David Silverman/Getty Images Photographer: David Silverman/Getty Images Housebound Americans’ new buying habits are showing up in everything from home-renovation supplies to takeout chicken and casual footwear. With the third-quarter earnings season well underway, the results are showing how coronavirus shutdowns are helping some companies absorb the impact on the economy, while others struggle. For instance, paint maker Sherwin-Williams Co. on Tuesday raised its full-year guidance and beat third-quarter expectations, citing “continued and unprecedented strength” in do-it-yourself demand as people spent to spruce up their homes. Restaurant Brands International Inc. said sales at its Popeyes chain jumped 22% amid strong demand for drive-through and takeout. Crocs Inc. saw sales climb 16%. At the same time, dressy shoemaker Steven Madden Ltd. posted a 31% drop in revenue. Xerox Holdings Corp. also took a hit from the shift to working from home, with equipment sales falling 15% amid business closures and office-building capacity restrictions. Read more: Volatility Tends to Subside as $7 Trillion Club Reports Earnings Overall, the earnings season so far has been strong. With about one-third of S&P 500 companies having reported as of Tuesday morning, more than 75% have beat sales estimates and nearly 85% have beat earnings expectations. That may reflect a low bar that analysts had set heading into the quarter, according to Deutsche Bank’s chief strategist Binky Chadha. “Companies that have reported have beat estimates by a massive 16.3% in aggregate, only modestly lower than the record 20.3% in Q2,” Chadha wrote in a note. The consensus for the fourth-quarter may also be too conservative, he said. Read more: S&P 500 Is Running Low on Buyers in Middle of Earnings Season Pharma giants Merck & Co., Pfizer Inc. and Eli Lilly and Co. also joined the nearly 700 companies set to report earnings this week. Key Developments: Here’s today’s top earnings news by sector: Health Care Industrials Consumer Materials Technology Transport — With assistance by Lu Wang