London and Paris face more curbs on public life from Saturday and Belgium will close bars and restaurants for a month, in Europe’s escalating efforts to check its coronavirus surge while limiting economic harm. German Chancellor Angela Merkel appealed to her citizens to meet with fewer people indoors or outdoors, as the country reported a record 7,695 new coronavirus cases. “How winter and Christmas work out will be decided in the coming days and weeks through the sum of individual actions,” Merkel she said in her weekly podcast, stressing the importance of refraining from unnecessary journeys and celebrations. As cases reach records across Europe, the U.K. and France are avoiding nationwide restrictions. Londoners are banned from mixing with other households indoors, while people in Paris and eight other French cities are confined to home between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. for four weeks. Italy’s Lombardy region, which includes Milan, reined in alcohol consumption and gambling. After broad lockdowns triggered some of the worst recessions in living memory, European officials are eager to stick to local restrictions targeted mainly at urban virus hot spots this time around. But with Europe heading into the winter, when people will be unable to spend as much time outdoors and transmission rates are likely to rise, getting back to normal appears some way off. Belgium, which has the most cases per-capita in Europe except for the Czech Republic, went for national measures. Prime Minister Alexander de Croo said the hospitality restrictions, along with a midnight to 5 a.m. curfew and curbs on alcohol sales and gatherings, will take effect Monday for four weeks. Work from home will be mandatory wherever possible. Bars in Brussels were already closed last week. Covid-19 cases per 100,000 people over the past 14 days Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  “By many measures, the numbers are worse than they were in March or April,” De Croo told a news conference. “And I bring no good message: those numbers will likely keep rising in the coming days.” Belgium’s experience suggests that the prospect of national shutdowns in growing likelier, even after leaders including U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and French President Emmanuel Macron vowed to do everything possible to keep their economies running. Read more: Europe Is Losing Fight to Stay Open on Record Virus Surge While polls suggest that a majority in France back the idea of a curfew in major cities, some governments are having to contend with rising opposition to virus curbs among citizens keen to return to a semblance of normalcy. “Everyone is worried about a second, full lockdown,” said Natalie Diaz-Fuentes, co-owner of London’s Santo Remedio Mexican restaurant and bar. The top U.K. teachers’ union is pushing for a two-week nationwide “circuit-breaker” lockdown that would extend the half-term school break, according to a report in the Telegraph. Coronavirus cases are climbing in Europe's biggest economies Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control * Figure per 100,000 people is based on a rolling 14-day cumulative total Authorities in Lombardy on Friday told bars and restaurants to start closing at midnight, suspended gaming, and banned establishments from serving alcohol after 6 p.m. except to patrons seated at tables. Restrictions for high schools and sports events were also announced. Italy’s reported daily cases rose by a record 10,010 on Friday, compared with 8,804 on Thursday. The positive-test rate climbed to 6.7% and patients in intensive care rose by 52 to 638. That compares with a peak of more than 4,000 in April. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez and the president of the Madrid region have disagreed publicly over policy. Spain reported more than 6,000 new cases for a second consecutive day, while occupancy of Madrid’s intensive-care beds eased slightly to 35.7%. — With assistance by Chris Reiter, Raymond Colitt, Rodrigo Orihuela, Birgit Jennen, Marco Bertacche, Paul Tugwell, Katharina Rosskopf, Rudy Ruitenberg, John Martens, and Alberto Brambilla