Photographer: Jim Watson/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Jim Watson/AFP via Getty Images Two candidates with starkly different visions for the country’s future. A pandemic that’s not yet under control. And an economy still reeling as millions of people remain unemployed. There is a lot riding on the results of the U.S. elections on Nov. 3. Whether President Donald Trump or challenger Joe Biden triumphs could shape the way millions of Americans save, spend and manage their finances for years. These are the ways the candidates and their respective parties could affect your wallet: Trump has vowed to slash taxes for the middle class and build on the cuts he passed in his first term. But heading into November, he has offered no concrete plan about how he would go about doing it. White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow has long suggested the administration is exploring a tax reduction for middle-class families. This promise for a “Tax Cut 2.0” was an indirect response to criticism that Trump’s 2017 tax cuts mostly benefited the rich and corporations. While it did offer tax reductions for middle class families, 60% of the cuts went to the country’s top 20% earners, according to research by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. Biden has proposed a tax plan that would indeed increase taxation, but his taxes target the wealthy. He has promised to enact a number of polices, including an income tax, a capital gains tax and payroll tax, the weight of which would fall on people making more than $400,000 a year. Their tax rates would edge up to 39.6% from 37%. The Tax Foundation estimates that by 2021, if Biden’s tax plan were enacted, the top 1% of taxpayers would see their after-tax income reduce by 11.3% and the top 5% would see it shrink by 1.3%. Those in the 90th to 95th percentile would see their after-tax incomes reduced by 0.2%. That doesn’t necessarily mean the middle class is in the clear. Biden’s tax plan would raise about $3.4 trillion over the course of 10 years. But the cost of his plans is estimated at $5.4 trillion, according to an analysis by The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Biden has yet to provide specifics on how he would finance the difference of almost $2 trillion. “I just don’t see another way that he can go, than to raise taxes on the middle class, because that’s where all the money is,” said Andrew Silverman, a tax analyst for Bloomberg Intelligence. Trump has promised to create 10 million new jobs in 10 months, though both details and the precise timeframe are fuzzy. The president often points to broad-based job gains before the pandemic as evidence of his economic stewardship. Through February, employment had increased by 6.8 million since January 2017, and the unemployment rate had fallen to a 50-year low. But many of the jobs created paid low wages. Some 41% of jobs added between Jan. 2017 and Feb. 2020 were in leisure, hospitality, education and health services, where earnings average less than $1,000 per week. Biden has indicated his plan to grow U.S. employment includes $400 billion for manufacturing and $300 billion for research and development, which he says could create 5 million jobs on top of those lost to the coronavirus outbreak. He has not attached a timeframe to his plan, though he would face pressure to achieve it by the end of his first term. Biden has also vowed to raise the federal minimum wage to $15 per hour, while Trump argues that such a mandate would hurt small businesses. Trump often touted a strong stock market before the pandemic. Business-friendly policies and less regulation helped boost the S&P 500 index roughly 60% since Trump won the 2016 election — even after the Covid-19 shock that sent stocks into the fastest bear market on record. But that has been offset by Trump’s trade war and tariffs on imports. Such levies have often meant that consumers had to pay more for goods. In fact, they cost the typical U.S. household approximately $831, according to research by the New York Federal Reserve. Moody’s Analytics estimated that the trade war with China also cost the U.S. about 300,000 jobs and that if the duties remain in place, more jobs could be lost. What’s more, the vast majority of Americans have not benefitted from rising stock prices. Federal Reserve data show that only about 53% of families held stock positions in 2019, while the top 10% of Americans, who hold more than 88% of those shares, reaped the benefits. Since 2002, upper-middle class Americans have seen a 10 percentage-point decline in their equity interest in companies. Biden has called for taxing capital gains and dividends at an ordinary income tax rate of 39.6% for those making more than $1 million. If Biden’s plans get the green light from Congress, they may weigh on your stocks, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Still, experts see global trade tensions easing under Biden, and expect more conventional politicking from him, which could bring stability to markets. The key for long-term investors is to remain invested, no matter which political party holds office, according to Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab. If someone invested $10,000 in the Dow Jones Industrial Average starting in 1900, but only when Republicans were president, that portfolio would now be worth $99,000. If that same person only invested when Democrats were president, that $10,000 would be worth $430,000. However, if that investor had stayed in the market the entire time, the portfolio would’ve grown to more than $4.2 million, according to Sonders. Trump and his advisers promised to release a specific health-care plan ahead of the November election. Those promises fell through. Their plans for health care in a second term exist in bullet-point form on Trump’s website and include: cutting prescription drug prices, lowering premiums, covering pre-existing conditions and protecting Medicare. If re-elected, Trump would continue to back a Republican, state-led lawsuit seeking to overturn the Affordable Care Act. The administration has emphasized that the high cost of ACA plans is unaffordable for many people who make too much money to receive premium subsidies. The latest addition to the Supreme Court, Justice Amy Coney Barrett, has previously criticized rulings backing the law — also known as Obamacare — but said during her confirmation hearing that those comments weren’t pertinent to the latest case. Biden has said his goal as president would be to ensure that no American buying insurance in the individual marketplace pays more than 8.5% of their annual income on health care. That could save people hundreds of dollars a month, but it could also damage the employer-sponsored health insurance market. Biden has proposed a public option for those who can’t afford private coverage and would lower the Medicare eligibility age to 60 from 65. (Trump has consistently backed major cuts to the program and imposed stricter rules for those who can receive coverage.) Trump’s administration temporarily placed federal student loans into administrative forbearance and cut interest rates to zero this year in the wake of the pandemic. If he wins again, he may extend this option for a few months. But longer term, your payment plan could see a spike if Trump wins. He has proposed combining all income-driven plans into one option where borrowers would pay 12.5%. Undergraduate borrowers could see their debt forgiven after 15 years, while graduate debt holders would be able to see their repayment forgiven after 30 years. Biden supports student loan forgiveness and has proposed a plan to make two- and four-year public colleges free for families that earn less than $125,000. He also supports canceling federal student debt for students from undergraduate universities and from private historically Black colleges and universities for the same income bracket. Trump has supported the idea of eliminating the payroll tax, which funds Social Security, further raising concerns about the program running out of funds. But the U.S. president doesn’t have the explicit power to raise or lower taxes — it would require approval by lawmakers and seems unlikely in the case of a divided Congress. Biden has proposed expanding Social Security for people over the age of 78, for people with low income and for widows and widowers. He plans on paying for this by increasing payroll taxes on individuals with incomes above $400,000. Yet if Congress is divided, that probably means Biden’s plans would fall through. Whoever wins the election will not be able to enact all of these plans alone. So much will depend on the makeup of Congress. Biden’s plans could end up a pipe dream if the Democrats don’t take the Senate. And if Trump wants to further cut taxes, he’ll need a Republican sweep. Democrats in control of Congress would likely support Biden’s plans for higher taxes on corporate profits and capital gains. So, too, would some form of student-debt relief, especially for lower income earners. A Democratic Congress would likely also be supportive of Biden’s plans to increase Social Security benefits. Trump’s plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act would be blocked if the Democrats take over Congress, while his plans to further cut taxes would probably not come to fruition. But just as he did during his first term, Trump could continue his deregulatory plans for businesses through executive orders, which could mean good news for stock portfolios. Republicans in power in Congress would likely lead to further tax cuts, further regulatory cutbacks and greater support for the undoing of the Affordable Care Act if Trump remains president. If Biden wins and the Republicans keep the Senate, the Democratic president may find it harder to move forward with his plan to tax the wealthy and corporations. But a Democratic administration could impose increased regulation through executive orders across several industries, including health care, fossil fuels and Big Tech. — With assistance by Alex Tribou, Sarah Ponczek, Justin Sink, Reade Pickert, and Sara Hansard