The 'NHS COVID-19' contract tracing app. The U.K.’s under-fire coronavirus test-and-trace system failed to capture more than 15,000 positive tests, piling pressure on Boris Johnson’s government to fix a program seen as essential to control the epidemic. Public Health England blamed a “technical issue” for the omission, which raises the prospect that thousands of people who had close contact with Covid-19 cases weren’t advised to self-isolate, risking further spread of the virus. PHE said the 15,841 missed cases date from between Sept. 25 and Oct. 2. It’s yet another blow to the government, which has faced severe criticism over testing capacity and the failure to deliver results quickly enough to make the test-and-trace system effective. Johnson last week apologized for people’s “bad experiences” with the testing system. Read more: U.K.’s Johnson Blames ‘Complacent’ Public for Surge in Covid On Sunday, Johnson said the test-and-trace program needed to improve. “Of course I’m frustrated with it,” he told the BBC’s Andrew Marr show. “It’s not perfect, but it has made a huge difference to our ability to see where the virus is spreading.” The glitch has resulted in a surge of cases in the past couple of days, with 22,961 reported on Sunday. On Monday, Johnson told reporters the new figures -- including the missing data -- now reflect the prevalence rate predicted by scientists. He said the next week would show whether recent restrictions, including the so-called rule of six on social gatherings, are having an effect. Work and Pensions Secretary Therese Coffey said Monday she’s “assured” the glitch has been remedied, while acknowledging the program must contact “as many people as possible to get them to go into self-isolation.” “I don’t think there’s anything we can change about history,” Coffey told the BBC. “We can only change how we make sure that these sorts of errors do not happen again in the future.” Though the test and trace system has improved in some areas recently, it’s still falling short on key metrics -- in particular the goal of tracing 80% of people who have been in close contact with a confirmed Covid-19 case. Scientists say that’s necessary to lower the coronavirus transmission rate. In the most recent data, 71.3% of positive cases were reached to request a list of contacts, and of those provided, 71.6% were notified and told to self-isolate. On the omitted cases, PHE said people received their test results “in the normal way” but they were not uploaded to the tracing system. “We fully understand the concern this may cause and further robust measures have been put in place as a result,” Michael Brodie, PHE’s interim chief executive, said in a statement. Coffey was also asked about reports the government is planning to bring in a three-tiered traffic light system of coronavirus restrictions to simplify the patchwork of local rules nationwide. She didn’t knock the notion down, telling Times Radio “these are, I think, still in discussion.” “It’s going to be up to the health secretary later in the week to discuss this with Parliament on the best way to approach on a national basis,” Coffey said. “We’ve got different rules in different parts of the country and what ministers are hearing is a little bit of ‘how can we know what the rules are?’” — With assistance by Joe Mayes