U.S. equity futures were steady with Treasury yields, while Asian stocks edged higher, as traders digested the final presidential debate and lawmakers in Washington continued to haggle over a spending bill. S&P 500 contracts fluctuated while shares in Japan, China, South Korea and Hong Kong saw modest gains on subdued volumes. President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden debated topics including the response to Covid-19, immigration policy and health-care reform. The 10-year Treasury yield steadied around 0.85% amid data showing the labor market is still gradually recovering. The dollar was little changed. Intel Corp. tumbled in after-hours trading after a tepid forecast. The day after the final U.S. presidential debate is traditionally negative for stocks Source: Bloomberg Note: In 2020, there has only been one debate thus far. The second was cancelled. Investors remained finely tuned into developments in Washington, where lawmakers continue to work toward a package to bolster the economy. While House speaker Nancy Pelosi signaled optimism on a deal with the administration, opposition remains in the Republican-controlled Senate, making a pact before the election less likely. “The last presidential debate didn’t really add much in terms of what each would do,” said Shane Oliver, head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd. “But President Trump’s more civil, calm and reasonable approach this time around may work slightly in his favor.” Elsewhere, there is increasing evidence that the pandemic is worsening. German infections have jumped to a record and Spain’s health minister said the spread of coronavirus is out of control in certain parts of the country. U.S. hospitalizations for Covid-19 have reached a two-month high. Ed Yardeni, president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research, says the Federal Reserve will be very concerned and may act if the Treasury yields move above 1%. Source: Bloomberg These are some of the main market moves: — With assistance by Vildana Hajric, Anchalee Worrachate, and Jeremy Herron