A swift rebound in global economic activity following the easing of pandemic-related restrictions on businesses initially delivered stronger-than-expected results. Now, moderation is setting in. In the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, the latest jobs report showed employment growth is cooling after months of robust hiring. A gauge of economic data surprises out of Europe has shown the biggest slide. Here are some of the charts that appeared on Bloomberg this week, offering insight into the latest developments in the global economy: The economic rebound from the virus lockdowns proved much stronger than anticipated, with Citigroup Inc.’s surprise index soaring to record levels in the past few months. But as the third quarter ends, the pace is flagging, and better-than-expected data are becoming rarer. Job gains slowed in September and many Americans quit looking for work, suggesting the economic recovery is downshifting as the country struggles without a Covid-19 vaccine or fresh government aid. Production remains below the pre-virus level for most of Sweden’s services sector Source: Bloomberg Economics Note: January 2020 = 100 Sweden has kept its restrictions largely intact since mid-March, offering a glimpse of what that might look like for other European economies who are battling new outbreaks of the coronavirus. British workers aren’t listening to their PM Source: Metrikus  White-collar employees in the U.K. are ignoring their prime minister’s pleas to work from home.  *At industrial enterprises with revenue from principal activities of more than 20 million yuan. Sources: Guangdong Statistics Bureau; Guangdong Administration for Market Regulation China’s Greater Bay Area is supposed to rival clusters like Tokyo Bay and San Francisco-Silicon Valley. But distrust of Beijing is throwing up obstacles.  Sources: Bank of Japan, Economic and Social Research Institute Japan, International Monetary Fund  High debt, low growth: Are we all Japanese now? Asia’s second-largest economy holds lessons for the world as the Covid-19 pandemic destroys jobs and rocks whole industries Percentage of the population that cannot afford a healthy diet Source: FAO  For tens of millions, the pandemic has exposed just how fragile economic status is worldwide. In many ways, nowhere has that been more apparent than in Latin America, where a resurgence of poverty is bringing a vicious wave of hunger in a region that was supposed to have mostly eradicated that kind of malnutrition decades ago. Mexican women account for almost two out of three jobs lost in country Sources: Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía, IDB Note: Figures represent jobs lost between March and August The economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic has taken a greater toll on Mexican women then men. Some 3.2 million female workers lost their jobs in the six-month period through August, or 64% of the total. The EU will be allowed to impose tariffs on $4 billion worth of U.S. exports Source: World Trade Organization Note: *Awarded in C$; **=certain country of origin labeling; ***=foreign sales corporations The transatlantic trade conflict isn’t showing signs of winding down any time soon, and a ruling from the World Trade Organization means that a fresh round of retaliatory tariffs could jeopardize the nascent economic recoveries in both the U.S. and the European Union. Daily labor costs for ships jump as virus restrictions curb usual crew swaps Source: Baltic Exchange  Shipowners are facing rising labor costs as widespread Covid-related restrictions limit movement of seafarers and make crew swaps more expensive. — With assistance by Johanna Jeansson, Jamie Rush, James Attwood, Bryce Baschuk, Jeff Black, Krystal Chia, Valentina Fuentes, Jonathan Gilbert, Max De Haldevang, Michael McDonald, Yoshiaki Nohara, Fergal O'Brien, and Allen K Wan