Collapsed buildings in Izmir, Turkey's Aegean Sea coast on Oct. 30. The earthquake was felt in some parts of Istanbul. A powerful earthquake collapsed at least 17 buildings in Turkey’s Aegean port city of Izmir, killing at least 12 people, with tremors felt as far away as the commercial capital, Istanbul. Two more people died on a Greek island near the Turkish coastline. The 6.9-magnitude tremor occurred more than 10 kilometers below the seabed, Turkey’s state-run Anadolu Agency cited Haluk Ozener, head of the Kandilli Observatory in Istanbul, as saying. Aftershocks may continue for up to 15 days, he warned. The epicenter of the quake, which was given a preliminary magnitude of 7.0 by the U.S. Geological Survey, was 17 kilometers (10 miles) off the coastal town of Seferihisar, officials said. In pictures: Rescue operations begin in Turkey's Izmir after magnitude-6.6 earthquake causes massive damage pic.twitter.com/YuVPsrPIRe Speaking in Istanbul late Friday, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that the number of people injured had risen to 438. As the rescue effort continued, the government banned entry to the city to prevent traffic congestion. “Bridges have collapsed and we were unable to enter the town,” Hasim Kavuklu, a hotel worker in the town of Sigacik, told Bloomberg by phone. “The sea first ebbed and then came back.” Some vessels capsized in the marina at Seferihisar, Kavuklu said, adding there were concerns for fishing boats out at sea. One person using a wheelchair drowned in the area as the waters rose, BBC Turkish reported. The governor of Izmir described the event as a “partial tsunami.” Greek authorities issued a tsunami warning for the island of Samos after the earthquake, state-run ERT said. People received a text message on their mobile phones to evacuate coastal areas. One high-school student on the island was killed and another later died from injuries after a wall collapsed on them, ERT said. Greek Prime Minster Kyriakos Mitsotakis called Erdogan to offer his condolences for the “tragic loss of life from the earthquake that struck both our countries,” the Greek premier said in a Twitter post. “Whatever our differences, these are times when our people need to stand together.” The two countries have for weeks been involved in heated disputes over Turkish energy exploration in the eastern Mediterranean and the divided island of Cyprus. France is in “full solidarity with the Greek and Turkish populations,” Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said via Twitter. The lira weakened as much as 1.1% to a record low of 8.3849 per dollar. Refiners Tupras and Socar said their operations at the Aliaga peninsula, about 120 kilometers north of the epicenter, were not impacted. Izmir-based cement makers Baticim Bati Anadolu Cimento Sanayii AS and Cimentas Izmir Cimento Fabrikalari Turk AS surged in Istanbul trading, while the benchmark stock index slumped 1.3%, closing the week down 6.6%. Turkey lies in one of the world’s most active seismic zones and is crossed by numerous fault lines. In 1999, two earthquakes with a magnitude of more than 7 struck northwestern Turkey, killing about 18,000 people.