On Oct. 8, as Illinois recorded what was then the highest count of newly confirmed Covid cases since May, Chicago announced the winners of a month-long design challenge that fielded hundreds of winter dining solutions from around the world. The winning submissions include a pop-up cabin inspired by ice-fishing huts, a movable heated booth just big enough to fill a parking space and a heated table inspired by a kind of traditional Japanese furniture known as kotatsu. According to a city press release, the Illinois Restaurant Association plans to work with local construction firms to create prototypes of each idea, and then test them at neighborhood establishments “in the coming weeks.” Yet with winter fast approaching, it’s a race against the clock — and restaurants are already running out of time. “Maybe it’s one that will have some legs when the pandemic is over,” says Pat Doerr about the kotatsu-inspired entry. “It’s just that right now, with a month at most until things get real cold, it looks like it’s a little bit of a challenge.” Doerr is the managing director of the Hospitality Business Association of Chicago, whose members include some 200 small businesses. He fears that even if the city lays out a blueprint for how to turn those ideas into reality, they may still be too costly for some owners. “If [customers] are dropping $80 to $100 per person, restaurants might be able to make it work,” he says. “But if you’re in a more neighborhood place, with a much lower average customer check, it’s hard to see how building a de facto ice-fishing cabin would be viable.” Recently, the food and alcohol suppliers offered him a grim projection that at least 20% to 30% of Chicago’s hospitality industry may not survive the winter season without some sort of intervention or relief. Over the summer, al fresco dining became an economic lifeline for restaurants and bars that were struggling to stay afloat and were able to claim some outdoor space. Now, with temperatures dropping in some parts of the world and indoor dining likely to remain limited or even prohibited as the pandemic rages on, businesses are scrambling to find ways to prolong outdoor service for as much of the fall and winter seasons as possible. The go-to solution for many so far is to install outdoor heaters, which can cost between $150 and $1,500 each. Already in some neighborhoods, armies of mushroom-shaped heat lamps line sidewalks and streets, hinting at what could become an iconic Covid winter scene. Several cities have also eased outdoor heating restrictions, waived permit fees and provided grants to help businesses cover some of the costs. Meanwhile the recent rush to buy heaters has led to a surge of demand and a shortage of supply in several major U.S. cities, including New York City and Washington, D.C. Fire pits are in high demand, too, though they’re not allowed in some cities like Baltimore and Philadelphia. And even in places where fire pits aren’t prohibited, they demand more space, which some businesses simply do not have. In Chicago, Tracy Hurst said it took her three tries to finally purchase 10 heat lamps for the outdoor patio of the Metropolitan Brewery. But she isn’t sure if they will be enough to keep patrons coming when the weather turns frigid. “No one has been through this situation so, honestly, we just react to everything, day by day, the best that we can,” she says, adding that she’s counting in part on customer loyalty. The scramble to winterize outdoor dining points to a larger urban planning problem: Many cities just  weren’t designed for the winter to be spent outdoors. And now in the midst of a pandemic, the hospitality industry is forced to reckon with the consequences. Not only are local economies threatened, but so are the livelihoods of restaurants. “It’s not always a bright sunny day in July, and when we think about planning for different weathers we can actually design cities that are more enjoyable,” says Mark Bennett, an urban designer and planner at the consulting firm Sam Schwartz. “It’s not only a public health issue, not only a socialization issue or an enjoyment and quality of life issue, but it’s an important economic issue for those businesses, too.” It’s possible that this pandemic might help usher in a new winter outdoor dining trend, something that’s long been popular in European countries like Germany, Spain and France. Nearly three-quarters of cafes and restaurants in Paris, for example, have some sort of heated terrace, according to estimates by trade groups. But relying on artificial heating alone won’t be enough. It's a costly solution that not all businesses can afford, especially at a time when sales have already taken a dramatic hit because of Covid-19 restrictions. It’s also not entirely climate-friendly. The environmental think tank Negawatt estimates that having four propane heaters running 14 hours a day during winter months can emit 13.6 tons of carbon dioxide, the equivalent of driving a car around the globe three times. While the impact may not compare to other greenhouse gas emitters like car traffic, it’s not insignificant. This July, the French government became the latest in Europe to announce a ban on all outdoor heaters, as part of a national push to curb energy consumption. Several cities in Germany have already banned their use and, in 2008, the European Union considered the move as well. France, however, has agreed that the ban would not go into effect until the end of 2021 to help restaurants make it through this winter during the pandemic, while in Germany, restaurant and bar owners are pushing local governments to reverse the restrictions — at least for the coming months. The good news, says Bennett, is that there are other low-hanging fruit techniques that don’t involve polluting and expensive technologies like heaters. In fact, when Bennett outlined his four guiding design principles to making an outdoor winter enjoyable, heating didn’t make the list. “The most important one is protection from the wind, which is what makes being outside go from chilly to miserable,” says Bennett. “You don’t necessarily always need an artificial heating element if you can protect people from the wind, and that doesn’t have to be an enclosed structure. Even just putting walls against people’s backs or having some sort of barrier really enhances comfort.” The other principles involve reintroducing elements that are lacking during the winter season: light, color and what Bennett calls shelter. “We’ve been sort of conditioned over thousands of years to really not enjoy feeling exposed,” he says. “When the leaves are gone for instance, we suddenly get a very exposing feeling, so there are a lot of creative way to bring some of that shelter back.” That can be anything from setting up tents or overhangs to more ambitious ideas like building plastic igloos and yurts for each table, as well as the winning cabin idea from Chicago’s challenge. At the same time, Bennett also foresees safety challenges that will take more than the ingenuity of individual business owners to solve, and that will require cities to plan ahead. Before it snows, for example, cities will need to adapt a snow removal plan that doesn’t just pile slush onto sidewalks and curbs, which not only disrupts open street programs but remains  a hazard for pedestrians and those with disabilities. “The real difficulty for Chicago, New York and other cities along that latitude is actually designing not for this mythical winter wonderland, but for this low 30-degree slushy environment,” he says. “Waiters and waitresses are stepping into the street, and now we have to think about how to transition people from the sidewalk into the street because those gutters are going to be full of slush.” At the Silver Spring Brewing Company in Maryland, owner Christian Layke has seen boosts in online orders for delivery and pick-up, and in wholesale orders to local liquor stores this year, but says taproom sales still make up for the largest share of his business. So he intends to keep people coming to the outdoor patio that his landlord has allowed him to set up. He agrees with Bennett, though, that the typical heaters won’t do much to keep his customers warm. The patio is nestled between two towering buildings, which creates a wind tunnel effect. So instead, he’s considering investing in large tents with walls that can be adjusted to go up and down and special-made blankets. He’s also planning to add propane-powered fire pits, but he says those are more for ambience than for keeping customers warm. “I don't think there’s much of an opportunity to make a big difference in temperature, so we’re thinking more about the enjoyment of  getting people to huddle around one of those fire pits,” Laykes says. “Part of the experience is to [accept] that it’s cold outside and enjoy it for what it is.” Layke is also selling the idea of embracing winter with a Christmas tree market, hot wine and boozy lattes. “We’re just throwing stuff at the wall, seeing what sticks and we’ll keep doing it,” he says. “If it doesn’t stick, then we’ll try something else. That’s how we’re approaching winter.” 