Democratic nominee Joe Biden leads by 10 points nationally in a Fox News poll. President Donald Trump called Senator Kamala Harris an “unlikeable” “monster” and a communist. And the president again suggested he’s competing for an unlikely state. There are 26 days until the election and 67 days until the Electoral College meets. Other Developments: Biden is ahead of Trump by 10 points in the latest national poll as the president seems on track to lose the popular vote again. In a Fox News poll released Wednesday evening, 53% of likely voters backed Biden, while 43% supported Trump. That’s in line with other polls taken this month, which show Biden ahead among likely voters nationally by 8 to 16 points. The poll also showed high levels of concern about the U.S. political system. Seventy percent of respondents said they believe that “our democracy is in danger” in the presidential election, while only 24% said they did not. The poll of 1,012 likely voters nationwide was conducted Oct. 3-6. It has a margin of error of 3 percentage points. -- Emma Kinery Trump called Senator Kamala Harris “unlikeable,” a “communist” and a “monster” Thursday, comments that may not help as he struggles to win over women. In an interview with Fox Business News, Trump made multiple disparaging references to Harris that could be noticed by female voters, who back Biden by a wide margin in most polls. “This monster that was on stage with Mike Pence, who destroyed her last night by the way, but this monster she says ‘no, no, there won’t be fracking, there won’t be this,’” he said. “Everything she said is a lie.” Trump also said that Harris was “well beyond a socialist,” calling her a “communist” to the left of Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders and “totally unlikeable.” The debate, he said, “wasn’t even a contest.” Biden, meanwhile, praised his running mate’s performance. “I thought Kamala did a great job last night,” he said at the airport in New Castle, Delaware, as he prepared to travel to Phoenix. “I was really proud of her.” A CNN/SSRS poll taken right after the debate found women overwhelmingly thought Harris won, 69% to 30%, while men were evenly split. The Democratic vice-presidential candidate’s favorability rating also went up a few points among both men and women in the poll. The CNN poll of 609 registered voters who watched the debate had a margin of error of plus or minus 5.3 percentage points. -- Emma Kinery Trump continued his run of suggesting he’ll win in states where he’s down by double digits. A day after arguing that he could win in California, where he’s down by 27 points, Trump said in a Fox Business News interview that New York might also be up for grabs. “I’m making actually a play for the whole state,” he told host Maria Bartiromo. “I did well there.” There’s no evidence his campaign is trying to win in New York, where a Siena poll in late September showed 61% of likely voters backing Biden and 29% backing Trump -- a 32-point margin that is among the widest in the country. Trump also didn’t do well in California, which last supported a Republican presidential candidate in 1988. His share of the vote in 2016 was just 32%, a six-point drop from Republican nominee Mitt Romney’s 2012 showing. The Biden campaign’s turnaround time for jokey merchandise has sped up, unveiling a fly swatter roughly an hour after Wednesday’s debate. After a fly that landed on Vice President Mike Pence’s head went viral during the debate, the Biden campaign quickly put together a blue fly swatter with the phrase “Truth Over Flies” on it. oh yeah, we did that https://t.co/E2tKPecTKV pic.twitter.com/DIbZLz2SoE By midnight, a Biden staffer tweeted that the campaign had already sold 15,000 of the $10 fly swatters. By morning, they were sold out. Though mocking merchandise has been more of a Trump campaign specialty, the Biden campaign has upped its game recently, turning around “I Paid More Taxes Than Donald Trump” buttons the same day the New York Times reported he had paid just $750 in taxes some years and none in others. Maine Democrats are putting up campaign signs for Collins, a Republican senator. The catch? They also have Trump’s name on them. The yard signs mimic the Trump campaign’s, but instead of Pence, they say Collins underneath. Democrats link Trump-Collins, literally, on campaign signs (from @AP) https://t.co/zMorbVlpoX It’s an unusual move, and one that may only work in fiercely independent Maine, where Biden is currently beating Trump by nearly 13 points in the RealClearPolitics average of polls. Democrats have targeted Collins’ claims of being an independent voice in the Senate by tying her to Trump and noting key times she supported him, such as voting for Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Recent polls show state House Speaker Sara Gideon narrowly beating Collins, who has represented Maine in the Senate since 1997. Biden and Trump are slated to have a second presidential debate, a town hall forum, on Oct. 15 in Miami. — With assistance by Emma Kinery