Stocks tumbled in Europe amid earnings disappointments and clampdowns by some of the region’s largest cities to curb the virus. U.S. futures slid on wilting prospects for new stimulus from Washington before the November election. The dollar rose with Treasuries as a risk-off mood took hold. Paris is set for a curfew and Londoners will be banned from mixing with other households indoors beginning this weekend, as leaders struggle to cope with record new cases around the region. The pound fell. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank more than 2% and headed toward its biggest drop in three weeks. Roche Holding slipped after sales fell short of estimates. Oil producer Total SE dropped after reporting its European refining margin ebbed. Index futures were signaling U.S. equities may fall for a third session unless earnings from Morgan Stanley and Charles Schwab later on Thursday manage to spark some optimism. Investors are coming to terms with virus flare-ups that are triggering tighter restrictions, just as stalled talks on U.S. stimulus and Britain’s messy exit from Europe weigh on risk appetite. U.S. jobless data in several hours may only add to the gloom, according to strategists at Mizuho International Plc including Peter Chatwell. “Data today is expected to confirm U.S. economic sentiment is deteriorating, U.S. fiscal stimulus remains some way off, and a hard Brexit” is possible, Chatwell and his colleages wrote in a note. In an extraordinary step taking effect Saturday, French President Emmanuel Macron will confine residents of nine of the country’s biggest cities to their homes between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. for four weeks. After this week’s summit in Brussels, U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to decide whether to pull out of talks and brace the country for a no-deal exit from the bloc.. Here are some key events coming up: Denis Manturov, the Minister who is overseeing Russia’s vaccine production, says the country is going to miss its target of making 30 million doses of an experimental Covid-19 vaccine this year due to setbacks maintaining the serum’s stability while scaling production. Source: Bloomberg These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh