Eye-catching vinyl from Burlington Record Plant. Source: Burlington Record Plant Source: Burlington Record Plant Federico Casanova was booking rock shows in Philadelphia a few years ago when he noticed the tendency of bands to play songs that were a year or two old instead of newer fare. The musicians told him it was because they needed to sell their records: Fans preferred to buy them on vinyl, but it could take a year to get a new release pressed and shrink-wrapped in the retro format. So Casanova, who’s now 28, set out to start his own record-pressing plant. In January he and two partners opened Softwax Record Pressing. It was intended to serve local acts, but the news spread quickly, and now he’s fielding requests from bands in New York and Pittsburgh, too. “I’m getting emails every day,” Casanova says. “People say, ‘Yo, we just found out about you! Let me put an order in right now!’ ” We are all feeling some sort of anger and confusion with our country's current state of affairs. We've been observing the movement closely and support it 100%  With a heavy heart we are not able to observe today's protest. For everyone that is out today, keep it real  we love you. We are all in this together. From Softwax, with love. A post shared by  Softwax Record Pressing (@softwaxrecords) on Jun 4, 2020 at 3:09pm PDT Even in the age of Spotify, vinyl sales are soaring in the U.S. From January to June of this year,  they surpassed those of CDs for the first time since 1986, reaching $232 million, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. The surge has led to a rebirth of the pressing industry, which the digital revolution had crushed. Read More: Ditch Your Basic Bookshelf Speakers and Stream in High-Def Instead In the heyday of vinyl, labels owned and operated hundreds of pressing plants—after all, a Led Zeppelin record could ship a million copies the first week. With the advent of CDs, which were cheaper to make and retailed for more, record companies junked their machines. By 2011 there were 13 plants left in the U.S., says Steve Sheldon, the former president of Los Angeles’s Rainbo Records, one of the few survivors at the time. Vinyl’s upswing has lured new players to the industry. Many are small, two-press operations catering to independent labels, but that’s enough for them to thrive. Dustin Blocker, co-owner of 6-year-old Hand Drawn Pressing in Addison, Texas, and a board member of the recently formed Vinyl Record Manufacturers Association of North America, says the number of plants has grown to more than 25. “We’re running 16 hours a day, six days a week,” he says, “We’re booked through February.” Friday night QC. Keep it up out there. A post shared by  Burlington Record Plant (@burlingtonrecordplant) on Sep 4, 2020 at 7:03pm PDT Initially the biggest challenge was finding pressing machines, most of which had been sold for scrap. Justin Crowther, owner of 6-year-old Burlington Record Plant in Vermont, says he paid more than $30,000 sight unseen for a decades-old record stamper once used in a Warner Bros. facility in Germany. “It had been out of service for 30 years,” he says. “It was all in pieces.” With the help of a local engineer, Crowther got it running and built a replica from scratch so he could have two. Since then the plant has been operating nonstop, churning out wax for the likes of Wilco’s Jeff Tweedy and underground rap icon MF Doom. “We’re doing 1,500 to 2,000 records a week,” he says. Three entrepreneurs in Toronto saw another opportunity and in 2015 founded Viryl Technologies, a startup that makes pressing machines. The company says it’s sold almost 100 of its signature WarmTones worldwide. The timing was perfect for some. Sean Rutkowski, vice president of Independent Record Pressing in Bordentown, N.J., a 5-year-old operation, says his company started out using six Hamilton machines almost 50 years old. It’s since replaced them with WarmTones. “I liken it to a new car vs. an old car,” he says. “A ’70s Camaro can run really well. You’re just constantly putting money into it.” In an industry steeped in tradition, some operators remain convinced that older is better. Softwax’s Casanova began with a rebuilt $160,000 SMT machine, a workhorse from the days when the Bee Gees ruled the charts, but recently paid $80,000 to augment it with one of Independent’s old Hamiltons. “It’s beautiful,” he says, running his hands over it as if it were the hood of a muscle car. “It’s the same as when it was built in the ’70s.”