European stocks opened down on Tuesday and U.S. futures fluctuated as investors weighed positive earnings reports against concerns that surging coronavirus cases will hurt the global economy. Declines in European energy and auto share offset gains in banks after powerhouse HSBC Holdings Plc reported credit losses would be at the lower end of its previously announced range. Spanish lender Banco Santander SA’s earnings beat estimates and may have boosted its case to resume dividends. Swiss drugs giant Novartis AG erased an early share gain after lifting its earnings forecast. S&P 500 futures signaled the index may hold much of Monday’s decline, which was the largest in a month. Crude oil nudged higher, while Treasuries and German bunds were steady. “Even as equities sold off yesterday, bond yields did not fall by much,” ING Groep NV strategists including Padhraic Garvey wrote in a note. “The bond market is still sniffing a slightly better medium-term outlook, especially in the U.S.” Investors will look for market catalysts later on Tuesday from U.S. pharmaceutical company earnings and data on durable-goods orders and consumer confidence. In the meantime, surging coronavirus infections are adding to an already cautious mood with the U.S. election a week away and time running out to finish an aid package before then. Europe took a step closer to the strict rules imposed during the initial wave of the pandemic, with leaders struggling to regain control of the spread while confronting growing opposition to restrictions. France’s government was told that its virus situation is moving toward that of early March, and the second wave will probably be worse than the first one. In Washington, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin again attempted to reconcile differences on a virus relief package. Differences between the two sides “have narrowed,” but “the more it narrows, the more conditions come up on the other side,” White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters. Mike Swell, co-head of global fixed income portfolio management at Goldman Sachs Asset Management, says don’t write off the bond market just yet. Source: Bloomberg These are some events to watch this week: Here are the major moves in markets: — With assistance by Claire Ballentine, Vildana Hajric, and Nancy Moran