U.S. equity futures retreated and the dollar extended gains as investors weighed the impact of President Donald Trump’s decision to end stimulus talks until after next month’s election. Asian equities were mixed. S&P 500 futures slipped after the benchmark fell more than 1% overnight in the wake of Trump’s comments. Shares saw modest losses in Japan and Hong Kong, and fluctuated in South Korea. Treasury yields maintained overnight declines. Nasdaq futures retreated after a House panel proposed a series of far-reaching antitrust reforms to curb the power of U.S. technology giants including Amazon.com and Alphabet Inc. Elsewhere, Australia’s 3-year bond yield dropped to an all-time low on plans to issue less debt than estimated, while stocks rose after Tuesday’s budget annoucement. Crude oil dropped. Volatility has picked up this month after Trump contracted the coronavirus and investors weighed the likelihood of a stimulus deal. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had called on Republicans to get on board with a version of the bill the House passed last week with only Democratic votes. But significant gaps remained between the Democrats’ $2.2 trillion proposal and a $1.6 trillion offer backed by the White House. “The market rally thus far had really been driven by this unprecedented stimulus from both central banks and governments globally and a large part of that was from the U.S.,” Emily Weis, a macro strategist at State Street Corp., said on Bloomberg TV. The timeline on more American fiscal stimulus “has now been pushed further back.” Meanwhile, with Trump now out of hospital investors continue to monitor the virus’s impact on economic recoveries around the world. German new cases jumped the most since April and Italy is set to order stricter rules. Here are some key events coming up: “I have instructed my representatives to stop negotiating until after the election when, immediately after I win, we will pass a major Stimulus Bill that focuses on hardworking Americans and Small Business,” President Donald Trump said in a tweet. Source: Bloomberg These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Romaine Bostick, and Cormac Mullen