Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Global coronavirus cases are approaching the 40 million mark, as infections sweep across Europe and cases in U.S. and India average more than 50,000 a day. Millions of Europeans are facing tighter restrictions on movement, with London and Paris enforcing tighter curbs. Slovakia plans to test the entire nation. The Australian government called on Victoria to reopen more quickly, after the state eased stay-at-home orders but left many businesses shuttered. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said talks with the White House need to make progress within days if President Donald Trump wants to see another stimulus bill before the U.S. election. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention said it found active Covid-19 virus on the outer component of refrigerated food packaging, according to state broadcaster CCTV. The virus was found on food packaging in the coastal city of Qingdao in Shandong province, the report said, without specifying the origin of the product. Qingdao has reported a dozen new virus cases this month, most linked to a hospital where infected travelers from overseas are being treated. China has said several times in recent months that imported refrigerated goods are risks for re-introducing the coronavirus into the country. World Health Organization experts have suggested there’s no evidence the virus can be transported via food packaging. Brazil reported 10,982 new cases, the fifth-lowest daily increase since the early days of the pandemic last spring, according to Health Ministry data. Daily deaths rose by 230, the second-fewest since late April. Brazil’s 5.2 million cases are eclipsed only by the U.S. and India. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte held off pressure to impose radical restrictions on Italy, betting his government can slow the spread of the coronavirus and protect the economy with more targeted measures. A man is tested for coronavirus in Rome on Oct. 12. Photographer: Tiziana Fabi/AFP via Getty Images The premier signed a new decree Sunday night -- only five days after a previous package -- urging mayors to close piazzas and streets at 9 p.m. to stop crowds gathering, and imposing a maximum of six people per table at restaurants which must close at midnight. Amateur and school competitions for contact sports are banned. The government and business groups are calling on Australia’s Victoria state to reopen the economy more quickly as Covid-19 cases decline, pointing to mounting job losses across retail and hospitality. State Premier Daniel Andrews on Sunday announced an easing of stay-at-home orders, but left many businesses shuttered until next month to ensure community transmission is further curbed. “Every day Victoria remains under restrictions to get the second wave in Victoria under control comes at a heavy cost,” Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a statement, adding that 1,000 jobs a day had been lost on average during the lockdown. South African Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said he and his wife, May, had tested positive for Covid-19. Zweli Mkhize Photographer: Waldo Swiegers/Bloomberg The two went for a test on Saturday after the minister, who has drawn widespread praise for his proactive approach to combating the pandemic, began showing mild symptoms. “I was feeling abnormally exhausted and as the day progressed, I started losing appetite. My wife had a cough, was dizzy and extremely exhausted,” Mkhize said in a statement on Sunday. “I am now in quarantine at home and both my wife and I remain optimistic that we will fully recover from this virus.” The Slovenian government extended its emergency authority after days of record new daily coronavirus cases and an all-time high positivity rate of 19% on Saturday. Declaring a renewed “state of epidemic,” the Alpine state is poised to introduce new restricting measures as a government expert group meets late Sunday in search of ways to tamp new infections, which reached almost 4,500 in the last seven days. Scott Gottlieb said the Trump administration’s current coronavirus strategy “is just to endure the spread until we get a vaccine.” The former FDA commissioner spoke on CBS on Sunday as total U.S. Covid-19 cases have surpassed 8 million and many states are seeing a rising rate of infection, including more severe cases. Medics with the Houston Fire Department prepare patient for transport to the hospital. Photographer: John Moore/Getty Images Gottlieb said it could be February or March before the first tranche of people receive a vaccine and are actually protected from the virus. France reported 29,837 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, according to statistics on the website of France’s national health agency. The government is counting on a curfew that went into effect this weekend in nine cities to brake the spread of the virus without the need for a generalized national lockdown. “The challenge is to face up to it without resorting to a broad lockdown, across the whole country and for a long time,” Prime Minister Jean Castex said in an interview in Le Journal du Dimanche newspaper. Britain needs an immediate three-week national lockdown as opposed to more limited regional restrictions, said Jeremy Farrar, a scientific adviser to the government. “The current tiered restrictions will not bring the transmission rates down sufficiently or prevent the continued spread of the virus,” he told Sky News on Sunday. Hundreds of protesters clashed with riot police in Prague in a protest against social distancing rules and measures such as wearing face masks imposed by the government to stem the most acute spread of the coronavirus in Europe. Demonstrators gather to protest against restrictive measures in Prague on Oct. 18. Photographer: Gabriel Kuchta/Getty Images The police used tear gas, water cannon and an armored personnel carrier to disperse the crowd of some 2,000 protesters, which assembled at the city’s Old Town Square. Some people, mostly hockey and football fans, refused to leave after the authorities ended the demonstration and used small explosive devices against the officers. Some 100 people were arrested after the protests and 20 people were injured, according to CTK newswire. The Slovak army will carry out mass testing in November, aiming to test all of the nation’s 5.4 million people, Defense Minister Jaroslav Nad told reporters. He said Slovakia would be the first country ever to do so. “We aren’t able to handle the pandemic, let’s be honest. This is way out of hell which we are heading for,” said Premier Igor Matovic, adding that the only other possibility would be a complete lockdown. The nation reported 1,567 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Saturday. Ireland’s government is considering health authorities’ recommendation to move the nation to the tightest lockdown level as it reported 1,283 cases, the most since April. The government will take “decisive” and nationwide action on Monday, Higher Education Minister Simon Harris told broadcaster RTE on Sunday, without giving details. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the National Governors Association is sending the White House a letter asking for specific guidance about how to distribute a coronavirus vaccine when it is available. Cuomo, the group’s current chair, noted that the federal response so far has been to devolve to the states responsibility for battling Covid-19. Andrew Cuomo Photographer: Jeenah Moon/Bloomberg “States cannot do this on their own. Period. This is a massive undertaking,” he said, adding that skepticism and conspiracy theories will complicate further the distribution of any vaccine. “We need the federal government to be a competent partner.” Nancy Pelosi set a Tuesday deadline for more progress with the White House on a fiscal stimulus deal before the Nov. 3 election, while President Donald Trump renewed his offer to go beyond the dollar amounts now on the table. The U.K. said Sunday 16,982 people tested positive, an increase of 5% from Saturday and a sixth straight day over 15,000. Another 67 people died within 28 days of a positive test. The U.K. broadened restrictions on socializing this weekend amid a surge in cases. More than 900 patients were admitted to U.K. hospitals, bringing the total to 5,608, and 592 are on ventilators. An artist creates a mural of a NHS worker in Manchester on Oct. 17. Photographer: Oli Scarff/AFP via Getty Images Italy reported 11,705 new coronavirus cases, the most in one day since the outbreak began. The number of patients in intensive care more than doubled in the last 10 days. Masks will now be required in public indoor spaces including airports and train stations, Swiss President Simonetta Sommaruga said at a press conference. Spontaneous public gatherings of more than 15 people will be forbidden and private gatherings exceeding that number will require masks. The government also advised people to work from home whenever possible. “The second wave is here,” said Interior Minister Berset. — With assistance by Ian Fisher