Illustration: Marc Majewski Illustration: Marc Majewski I was watching zebras drink from a watering hole in the Rwandan wilderness when I turned to my safari guide and asked him to play me his favorite song. Wherever I go, I collect “song souvenirs.” On one level, it’s an easy way to find common ground with people from other places, but the practice also never fails to firmly embed a place in my mind. Science backs me up, too: A 2015 study published in the neurology journal Brain found that musical memories are so strong, they can even be preserved in patients with advanced Alzheimer’s disease. On this day, though, I also wanted to lighten the mood. Between sightings in Akagera National Park, my guide, Johnston Mbanzamihigo, had been telling me about his time fighting in the Rwandan Patriotic Front against the perpetrators of the country’s 1994 genocide. He opened his phone and cued up Ntawamusimbura, a sentimental track sung in Kinyarwanda by the local singer Meddy. It has a lightly autotuned but vulnerable Ed Sheeran-like vibe; the title means “No one can replace her,” Mbanzamihigo translated. As he closed his eyes and swayed with his arms outstretched, I joined him, knowing that every time I heard this song later, it would transport me straight back to this moment on the savanna. Music has helped me break barriers and build relationships abroad since childhood. As an expat in Singapore, I’d listen to my Scandinavian friends play Bo Kaspers Orkester’s Swedish smooth jazz on CD players in the school cafeteria, imitating lyrics I barely understood. Studying abroad in Italy, I became enamored with Jovanotti, a tattooed pop sensation who has Bruce Springsteen levels of success in his country but barely registers in America. I’ve danced with a Tokyo-based friend to Japanese indie darling Cocco (imagine Fiona Apple with a rock twist) and bonded with a Brazilian in São Paulo over the soulful and raspy Maria Gadú. These non-Anglophone tracks can be hard to find outside their home countries. For decades, the deep-pocketed music industries of the U.S. and the U.K. have spread their cultural influence by monopolizing marketing, concert tours, distribution, and airtime. Jason King, director of global studies at NYU’s Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music, calls this a kind of “musical imperialism.” But that’s begun to change in recent years, especially as our pathways to music discovery have become less homogenized, he says. “People are exposed to more music these days than ever before through apps like Instagram or TikTok.” In September, Billboard changed its format and rolled out two Global Charts—one of which excludes U.S. hits entirely—because many of the biggest pop stars are now cropping up outside the States. These new charts base their lists exclusively on song sales and streams, not radio play. Also this year, BTS became the first Korean group to reach No. 1 on Billboard’s flagship Hot 100 chart, and Nigeria’s Afrobeat king, Burna Boy, collaborated with Beyoncé on Black Is King, catapulting him to global fame. Still, it took a plane ride to France (and the help of Shazam) for me to discover Angèle in a Paris boutique in 2019. The young Belgian artist has swept the Francophone charts with her sensual, Billie Eilish-like voice. I fell hard for her feminist song Balance Ton Quoi, a bold and cheeky affirmation of France’s version of #MeToo, known as #balancetonporc, or “rat out your pig.” Later that trip, at the chef’s counter of the ebullient Israeli restaurant Balagan, my attention pingponged from an herbaceous fattoush salad to the Yael Kraus bossa nova-style covers of popular Hebrew songs playing over the speakers. The whole internationalness of it all was intoxicating: A Tel Aviv-born, Brooklyn, N.Y.-based artist with a Brazilian sound was playing in a French restaurant serving Middle Eastern food. The best song souvenirs serve as a kind of cultural exchange, spontaneously acquired and reliant on mutual curiosity with locals. At least, that’s what happened with my Rwandan safari guide. After Meddy’s ballad wrapped, he began scrolling through his phone again, looking for another song. His pick? Africa, by Toto. As soon as those all-too-recognizable opening notes began, we both started laughing. Never mind that the 1982 classic paints the entire continent with a White gaze, or that Mount Kilimanjaro is too far from the Serengeti to rise above it. Mbanzamihigo was returning the favor with music familiar to my American ears, and, in the process, guaranteed I’ll never hear it the same way again. 