Most Asian stock markets advanced as investors mulled encouraging signs for Joe Biden in the presidential election race and the outlook for stimulus. Treasuries steadied after yields pushed higher. Shares in Australia outperformed, with gains more modest in Japan, while Hong Kong stocks slipped. U.S. equity futures edged up following the S&P 500’s 1.7% overnight advance. The dollar was flat. New Zealand’s dollar sank as the central bank indicated a readiness to deploy more stimulus. Nancy Pelosi signaled openness to an airline-relief bill in talks with Steven Mnuchin after President Donald Trump scuttled broader talks. State polls showed Biden is widening his lead in a slew of crucial battleground states. “While the debate on a fiscal stimulus this side of the election rages on, the real question is whether markets are front running a ‘blue wave’ scenario?” Chris Weston, head of research at Pepperstone Financial in Melbourne, wrote in a note. Also, “whether the market is less convinced we will see an ugly contested scenario.” Elsewhere, U.S. tech stocks mostly rose, even after a House panel’s proposal late Tuesday for stricter antitrust rules. Oil remained under pressure after U.S. government data showed the first crude stockpile gain in four weeks. Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 15-16 meeting released Wednesday showed some U.S. central bankers sought further debate on the future of the Federal Reserve’s asset purchase program when they met last month, signaling they’d be open to altering or increasing bond buying going forward. Meanwhile, signs are mounting the coronavirus is returning to the New York area, with infections reaching a three-month high. France reported a record number of new cases and Italy’s infections spiked to the highest since April. Trump said an antibody cocktail made by Regeneron was the “key” to his recovery, lifting the company’s shares in after-hours trading. Elsewhere, U.S. officials have stepped up behind-the-scenes talks in recent weeks about possibly restricting the expansion of Ant Group’s Alipay and Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s WeChat Pay over concerns that the digital payment platforms threaten national security. These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sam Potter, Anchalee Worrachate, Vildana Hajric, and Claire Ballentine