Police patrol near illuminated take away food outlets in Paris, France, on Oct. 6. We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. India reported 74,383 new coronavirus cases and 918 deaths on Sunday, bringing the total in the world’s second-most populous country to more than 7 million. Only the U.S., where the latest daily count marked a two-week peak in infections, has more cases. Doctors for U.S. President Donald Trump said he is no longer considered a transmission risk and can safely stop self-isolation, hours after Trump’s first public appearance since being hospitalized for Covid-19 a week ago. Myanmar, France and the Netherlands reported record single-day new cases, and Italy and Ireland are battling their worst outbreaks since the spring. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. India is on track to pass U.S. infections Sources: Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg  India passed 7 million Covid-19 cases, the second country after the U.S. to reach that grim milestone. More than 108,000 people have died, according to data from the country’s Health Ministry. Still, signs suggest the rate of infection is slowing slightly, with the latest 1 million cases coming in 13 days compared with 12 for the previous million, according to the Hindustan Times. Doctors and government authorities have warned that a new wave may be on the horizon, with the approach of winter and a slew of festivals coming up. This is the biggest risk for the economy, which is poised for a rare annual contraction. Read more: How Mumbai’s Biggest Slum Stopped the Virus A bulk carrier anchored off Port Hedland on the northwestern coast after crew members tested positive for Covid-19 last month is scheduled to set sail Sunday, according to Western Australia’s health department. Of 21 seafarers from the Patricia Oldendorff, which had traveled from Manila to be loaded with manganese ore, 18 have recovered from the virus. Three others -- one of whom remains Covid-19 positive -- are currently staying at a quarantine hotel and will leave separately once they have been cleared to do so, the health department said. The health and working conditions of the roughly 1.6 million seafarers aboard cargo ships has become an issue as the pandemic drags on. Government and travel restrictions make it difficult to swap out crew members who are overdue for relief, and cases like the Patricia Oldendorff have given ports new reason for caution. The U.K. reported 15,166 virus cases on Saturday, a 3% rise in line with the average daily increase over the previous week. Infections in the U.K. have risen by a third in the last two weeks, and a government minister said earlier this week said the renewed outbreak is “getting out of control.” Mayors in the U.K. will be given more control over the coronavirus test-and-trade system as the government tries to secure their support for tougher lockdown rules that are set to be announced Monday, the Sunday Times reported. Another 87 people died for a total of 57,347, the government reported. Brazil’s death toll reached 150,198, after 599 more fatalities were reported on Saturday. The nation reported 26,749 new cases for a total of 5,082,637, according to Health Ministry data. The week ended with the lowest number of new infections since June. It was also the third consecutive week the number has declined. Brazil has the highest number of infections after the U.S. and India. France reported 26,896 new infections, the second consecutive day of record cases after recording about 20,000 on Friday. Deaths increased by 54 to 32,684, according to the government health agency. The positive-test rate increased to 11% from 10.4% on Friday. The latest jump in new cases was a 3.9% increase from the number reported Friday and compares with a 2.5% average daily rise over the previous week. There’s “no doubt whatsoever” about the challenge facing hospitals in the next two weeks, Aurelien Rousseau, head of the Paris region’s health agency, said on Twitter earlier Saturday. “We urgently n Ireland reported 1,012 new cases, the most since April 15 and the third-biggest number on record. The positivity rate, which has more than doubled in the last two weeks, jumped to 6.2%, the Health Ministry reported. Another five people died from virus-related causes. “All the important indicators of the disease are deteriorating,” chief medical officer Tony Holohan said. The 14 day incidence of confirmed cases has jumped to 150 per 100,000 people compared to 108 a week ago. New York reported 1,447 cases, in line with recent elevated daily increases as the state began cracking down on hot spots in New York City and upstate. Governor Andrew Cuomo said Saturday those hot spots account for 2.8% of the state’s population but 18% of all cases reported this week. Earlier this week, the governor ordered schools and non-essential businesses closed for at least two weeks in parts of Brooklyn and Queens and in Orange and Rockland counties. He said in a statement that the outbreaks are local and that overall New York’s numbers “remain good news.” But, he added, “It’s going to take the work of all of us now to make sure we don’t go backwards on our hard-fought progress.” Italy’s new cases climbed for a fifth day, reaching 5,724, the most since late March. That’s well above the previous seven-day average of 3,409. Daily testing hit a record and the positivity rate climbed to 4.3%, the highest since April. There were 29 Covid-19 related deaths, as patients in intensive care units rose by 3 to 390, still far below the peak of about 4,000 in early April. Italy’s government is set to further reinforce measures to curb the coronavirus pandemic amid cases resurgence. The Netherlands reported 6,504 cases, a daily record and rising above 6,000 for the first time, according to Dutch news agency ANP. More than 36,000 new infections have been reported in the past seven days, the report said. A total of 1,190 people are now hospitalized, up from 1,139 Friday while the number of people on the intensive care dropped by four to 235, the report said. The Dutch government is meeting Sunday to discuss stricter measures to combat the spreading of the virus. Myanmar recorded 2,158 new cases and 32 fatalities on Saturday, the highest single-day spike of infections, according to the Ministry of Health and Sports. The majority of newly-infected people are from Yangon, the nation’s commercial hub. As of Saturday, nation has reported 26,064 cases in total, including 7,050 recoveries and 598 fatalities. U.S. officials are looking to open travel between New York City and London with shortened traveler quarantine periods as soon as the holidays, Dow Jones reported Saturday, citing people familiar with the matter. Officials at the U.S. Transportation Department, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies have considered the increasing availability of Covid-19 tests in the U.S. as an opening path to implementing safe travel corridors between the country and international destinations. A Homeland Security official told Dow Jones that the agency’s work was in its early stages as it seeks to safely encourage transatlantic travel while considering public-health risks. Chris Christie said he was released from the hospital Saturday, a week after he checked as “precautionary measure” after testing positive for Covid-19, the former New Jersey governor said on Twitter. The two-term Republican governor, who has a history of obesity and chronic asthma, entered Morristown Medical Center on Oct. 3. He recently participated in President Donald Trump’s preparations for his first TV debate with Democratic challenger Joe Biden. Christie, 58, also attended the White House Rose Garden event announcing the nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court. I am happy to let you know that this morning I was released from Morristown Medical Center. I want to thank the extraordinary doctors & nurses who cared for me for the last week. Thanks to my family & friends for their prayers. I will have more to say about all of this next week. Portugal on Saturday reported the biggest daily increase in the number of confirmed coronavirus cases since the start of the outbreak, according to government data. There were 1,646 new cases in a day, more than the 1,394 reported on Friday, and taking the total to 85,574. The number of patients in intensive care units fell by 3 to 122, a level that’s less than half of the peak reached in April The mayors of some of northern England’s biggest cities have called on members of parliament to reject the U.K. government’s revised support package for areas hit by local lockdowns. Mayor of Greater Manchester Andy Burnham said government proposals to offer hospitality workers two-thirds of their wages if they are forced to close were a recipe for mass unemployment and risked plunging thousands of low-paid bar and restaurant workers into poverty. The government’s revised support measures are less generous than the national furlough program unveiled at the start of lockdown that originally offered to pay 80% of workers wages. Poland imposed special shopping hours for the elderly starting Oct. 15 following a record rate of new infections, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said at a news conference in Warsaw on Saturday. Poland reported 5,300 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, according to data published on Saturday. That takes the total number of infected to 121,638 with the death toll rising by 53 to 2,972. Poles are obliged to wear masks in public as of today. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Alexander Michael Pearson, Krystof Chamonikolas, Jack Sidders, Arsalan Shahla, Charlie Devereux, Yantoultra Ngui, Deana Kjuka, Chris Vellacott, Yueqi Yang, Khine Lin Kyaw, Sonia Sirletti, Fred Pals, Esteban Duarte, Peter Flanagan, Linus Chua, Samy Adghirni, and Joanna Ossinger