President Donald Trump said he’s dialed down the drugs to treat his Covid-19, while taking “not heavy” steroids. He said he’s not contagious and plans to resume holding rallies. Trump said he won’t participate in the second scheduled debate with Joe Biden after the organizing group said it would be held remotely. Trump returned to the Oval Office Wednesday for the first time since getting back to the White House Monday evening after his hospitalization at Walter Reed. His doctor said he reported being free of Covid-19 symptoms for over 24 hours as of Wednesday. Key Developments: Trump said he’s pared back the drugs he used to treat his Covid-19, and reiterated praise for a Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. antibody cocktail. “I don’t think I’m contagious at all,” Trump said in a telephone interview Thursday on Fox Business Network. “I think I’m taking almost nothing,” he said, describing his condition as “perfect.” He added of his current treatments that, “They have a steroid, it’s not a heavy steroid.” Trump also said “I figured” at some point he might catch the coronavirus, given the extent of his in-person interactions with people. He now aims to return to the campaign trail. “I think I’m better to a point where I’d love to do a rally tonight.” Trump said it was “not acceptable” to do the second presidential debate with Biden remotely, and he won’t participate. “I’m not going to do a virtual debate,” Trump said in a live interview with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business. Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien said in a statement, “The safety of all involved can easily be achieved without canceling a chance for voters to see both candidates go head to head. We’ll pass on this sad excuse to bail out Joe Biden and do a rally instead.” The Oct. 15 presidential debate, scheduled to be the second of three, will be held remotely, according to the group overseeing its organization. Trump had said earlier this week he was healthy and looking forward to the debate with challenger Joe Biden. “The second presidential debate will take the form of a town meeting, in which the candidates would participate from separate remote locations” the Commission on Presidential Debates said in a statement Thursday morning. The vice presidential debate between Vice President Mike Pence and Senator Kamala Harris on Wednesday evening was held with tightened protocols to avert the spread of the coronavirus. The president required personnel at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center to sign non-disclosure agreements before they could treat him last year, NBC reported, citing four unidentified people familiar with the matter. At least two doctors declined to do so, and weren’t allowed to be involved in his treatment, two of the people said, according to NBC. The request was made during Trump’s surprise visit to the medical center in November 2019, NBC said. Read more: Trump’s Weekend Hospital Visit Was Routine Exam, His Doctor Says Walter Reed spokesperson Norris Agnew referred NBC News to the White House for comment. Trump returned to Walter Reed last Friday for treatment of his Covid-19. — With assistance by Emma Kinery, and Josh Wingrove