Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Guinea’s government ordered the army to end violent protests over election results that show incumbent President Alpha Conde is set to win a third term. Territorial Administration Minister Bourema Conde “requisitioned the national army to maintain order in the country,” state-owned broadcaster Radio Television Guineenne reported, citing a government statement. At least twelve people have died in demonstrations that erupted as the electoral commission releases tallies from Sunday’s presidential election. Conde, in power since 2010, has won 24 of the nation’s 38 districts, while opposition leader and former Prime Minister Cellou Dalein Diallo garnered 13, the commission said Thursday. The protests have been confined mainly to the capital, Conakry, though one person was killed in Kamsar, according to Alseny Cherif Camara, the mayor of the port city from were companies such as Guinea Alumina Corp. and Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee ship bauxite. “Calm has returned and investigations are in progress,” Camara said by phone. CBG spokesman Amadou Dioulde Camara said the company’s operations weren’t affected. Shipments of bauxite and alumina continue as normal and bauxite stocks in the ports are sufficient, a company spokesman said in an emailed statement. Though railways between Rusal’s operations in Friguia and Kindia and the Conakry port are blocked, the company has been able to secure shipments by using the ore-carrying motor-roads. Meanwhile, the railway traffic in the direction of the Taresa port has been restored. Conde and Diallo were the two frontrunners going into the election. Conde had the advantages of incumbency, a well-funded campaign and backing from Russia, whose companies have invested heavily in mines to extract the nation’s abundant iron-ore and bauxite reserves. Diallo was the runner-up in the 2010 and 2015 elections. Diallo claimed on Oct. 19 that he’d won the vote, based on his campaign’s tally of results from polling stations. His announcement set off celebrations by his supporters across Conakry and the mining town of Boke. They erected barricades and burned tires preventing people from moving around freely in several Conakry neighborhoods, according to a government statement. Conde’s supporters have also taken to the streets to protest Diallo’s claim of victory, it said. Calm only returned after security forces were sent in to restore order. Diallo said his supporters had taken to the streets to “defend his victory” while security forces surrounded his home preventing him from joining them in a video posted on social media. Guinea will hold a second round of voting on Nov. 24 if no candidate secures more than 50% of the ballot. — With assistance by Katarina Hoije, and Yuliya Fedorinova