Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Mass protests against police brutality in Nigeria are taking a mounting toll on an economy already reeling from the coronavirus pandemic. While the demonstrations have served to hold the government and police to account, they’ve also cost an estimated 700 billion naira ($1.8 billion) in lost output, according to the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It called for grievances to be addressed through dialog, and for an end to the series of marches and street blockades that have spread to about half the nation’s 36 states. “Over the past 12 days, economic activities have been crippled in most parts of the country,” the chamber said in a statement. “There is a great risk that the situation may degenerate into a case of the complete breakdown of law and order.” The protests that erupted on Oct. 5 have continued despite the government bowing to demands to dissolve the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, a police unit that’s borne the brunt of the brutality allegations. Thousands of people, most of them youths, have taken to the streets of Abuja, the capital, and Lagos, the economic hub, and other towns, sealing off major roads and bridges, disrupting flights and bringing many businesses to a standstill. The governor of Lagos state imposed a 24-hour curfew on Tuesday to try and quell disruptions in the city, which is home to the headquarters of Nigeria’s biggest banks and other companies. The southern Edo state made a similar declaration on Monday, after hundreds of inmates took advantage of a chaotic demonstration to stage a prison break. Dear Lagosians, I have watched with shock how what began as a peaceful #EndSARS protest has degenerated into a monster that is threatening the well-being of our society. Lives and limbs have been lost as criminals and miscreants are now hiding under the umbrella... The curfew was imposed in Lagos after a police station was torched and a major expressway linking the city to the northern and southeastern parts of the country was sealed off. In Abuja, soldiers dispersed protesters who had gathered in various parts of the city. Nigeria’s oil industry, which is Africa’s biggest and is the mainstay of the economy, has been unaffected and yields on the nation’s dollar bonds have ticked up since they began, indicating that investors aren’t unduly concerned. The fallout will worsen if the unrest drags on and violence that has erupted in recent days intensifies, according to Mosope Arubayi, chief economist at Vetiva Capital in Lagos. “Locals could be scared to go to work and foreigners will fear for the security of their investment,” he said. “This will have a dire impact on the level of economic activity in the country and existing foreign investors could start exiting their position in the capital market.” While the government has issued a directive to its security forces not to use violence, Amnesty International accuses the police of still using excessive force against peaceful protesters. Three people were killed during clashes that erupted during a march in Abuja on Monday, bringing the total killed so far to 18, the human-rights group said on Twitter. Activist Aisha Yesufu said the violence was part of a government strategy to deter further demonstrations. “It is the modus operandi of the government and they get away with it because people are frightened,” she said. Most previous uprisings in Nigeria have been quashed by the security forces, but the scale of the current protests and the fact that they have been organized on social media and have no clear leaders have made them difficult to quell. “Communication between the two sides will likely continue to be strained, given a lack of trust in the government,” Songhai Advisory, a Lagos-based risk advisory firm, said in a note to clients. It warned that policing reforms will face legal and fiscal constraints, with the nation’s federal system limiting the ability of the states to effect changes on a force that falls under the ambit of the national government. Besides policing reforms, the protesters also also want President Muhammadu Buhari to deliver a special state-of-the-nation address, and for the government to pay compensation to those who have died and improve welfare benefits for police officers. Japheth Omojuwa, a political activist from Abuja, said the demonstrators appeared determined to continue their campaign until all their demands were met. “The Nigerian government is not used to something like this,” he said. “It’s difficult to say it can go this way or that way, but ultimately, the government will always have a say in how far it goes.” — With assistance by Anthony Osae-Brown, and Elisha Bala-Gbogbo