The power of one: Though often overshadowed by mass rallies, solo protests speak their own compelling language. In July, 13-year-old Kailyn Jordan stood alone outside her neighbor’s home in Shoreline, Washington, a suburb of Seattle, with a sign that read, “Am I next?” Days before, Jordan, who is Black, had noticed a “Blue Lives Matter” flag hanging from her neighbor’s home. She says that the sign — a statement of support for law enforcement often deployed as a racially divisive response to the Black Lives Matter movement — made her afraid to hang out outside her home during summer break. So Jordan embarked on a lone act of protest, standing in the street outside the woman’s home with her own homemade sign. That ended up triggering a racist exchange with another neighbor, Jordan says, which in turn led to a flurry of social media posts and then a youth-led demonstration the following week. “Shoreline is such a quiet place that people don’t think things like this happen… but racism is still a thing in Shoreline, whether it’s from neighbors, teachers or the Shoreline police department,” Jordan says. When her daughter first told her about the racist incident, Jordan’s mother says she was in disbelief — but also very proud: “She dealt with it a lot better than I would have at 13,” says Dawn Jordan, a social worker. “I would have internalized and imploded at some point. She definitely did not.” Amid the mass demonstrations against police brutality and racial inequality that have sprung up across the U.S. in the wake of the police killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and others, there’s a separate, more understated type of protest taking place as well. In cities and small towns, individuals have ventured out on their own. Their acts may not necessarily close downtowns, halt traffic or bring swarms of national news crews, but solo protests like the kind Kailyn Jordan embarked upon can speak their own uniquely compelling language. Over the summer, there was 48-year-old John Darcy, who protested alone in Long Beach, Washington, and Marine veteran Todd Winn, who wore his uniform to protest police brutality outside the Utah Capitol in Salt Lake City. There was also Aiden Kelley, age 9, who held his own protest in Chicago after he learned what had happened to George Floyd, and 23-year-old Shane Meyers, whose sign vigil at a West Palm Beach intersection inspired a viral TikTok. In the Villages, a Florida retirement community with an overwhelmingly conservative-leaning population, 72-year-old Ed McGinty also earned some viral fame, and much local animus, over his one-man anti-Trump protests. Overall, protesters who go it alone are fairly rare: Count Love, a database that has been documenting demonstrations for a variety of progressive causes in the Trump era, has cataloged just 23 solo racial justice events since Floyd was killed on May 25, out of more than 8,000 demonstrations. This is likely a significant undercount, since solo protests often go relatively unnoticed in local media. In the the drama of the confrontations they sometimes invite, lone acts of political defiance can end up having an outsized impact. One who did make some headlines locally was Neil Morris, 79, who has been holding his own Black Lives Matter protest on the corner of a main street in the small city of Sequim, Washington, since the death of George Floyd in late May. He sits at  in a white lawn chair and holds up two signs; one says “BLM,” while the other depicts the Human Rights Campaign logo. He waves at passing cars; some honk in support. Others yell,  “All lives matter!” “As a private citizen there’s not a hell of a lot you can do,” says Morris, a retired Navy veteran. He previously protested against former president George W. Bush’s attack on Iraq and helped his wife knit some 600 pink hats for the women’s march after Trump’s inauguration. “I can write letters and emails and all that but to be honest I don’t know if anybody reads my mail or emails or any of that so I feel I have to make a physical demonstration. That way I feel like I’m actually doing something, even if in reality it’s drivel.” Solo protests represent a much more intimate variation on political action, one accessible to people of virtually any age or background, says Rhonda Y. Williams, professor and John L. Seigenthaler chair in American history at Vanderbilt University. While mass rallies tend to draw younger adults, the ranks of solo protesters might be filled by children and older people, or those who aren’t up to the physical rigors and risks of marches and encampments. But in the force of their symbolism and the drama of the confrontations they sometimes invite, lone acts of political defiance can end up having an outsized impact. See, for example, environmental activist Greta Thunberg, whose international climate strike movement began as a solo protest from the then-15-year-old schoolgirl. Williams cites the example of activist James Meredith, who, in 1966, kicked off a solo “March Against Fear” from Memphis to Jackson, Mississippi, to call attention to voter discrimination against African Americans. He was shot and injured by a white gunman shortly after departing, but civil rights leaders Martin Luther King, Jr., Stokely Carmichael and others stepped in, bringing roughly 15,000 people together to finish the march. When it comes to social justice issues, Williams says, those who venture out by themselves tend to be drawn by a sense of moral outrage: “I think it’s the feeling of seeing and experiencing in the gut, in the soul, the spirit and the mind that there’s something tremendously unfair happening here.” The power of a solo protest, she says, often comes from “the confrontational aspects of it, the display of extraordinarily inhumane and ugly human behavior.” She mentions Thich Quang Duc, a Buddhist monk who burned himself to death in 1963 in Saigon during the Vietnam War to protest the persecution of Buddhists in Vietnam, and the still-unknown “Tank Man,” who stood alone to briefly halt a line of tanks in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in 1989. “It has to have this level of extraordinary flair and spark that make people gasp.” It’s important to remember that solo protests are hardly exclusive to social justice movements, Williams adds: There are plenty of people on the other side of the ideological spectrum who also make solitary statements. And no matter the cause, those who take to the streets by themselves can face long odds when it comes to making a difference. “If they’re not willing to engage with the public, if they’re not willing to speak to journalists or sort of articulate their message, then it kind of ends then and there,” says Kevin Gaines, Julian Bond Professor of Civil Rights and Social Justice at the University of Virginia. “It may exist in the memory of people who witness the protest, but it’s really hard to have any kind of discernible impact if there’s no public engagement.” One important tool for getting around this is social media, as it can amplify those protests and “keep the chain reaction of activism and organizing going,” he says. Rajat Kodira, 22, an undergraduate student at Kansas State University, held his own all-day solo protest in August on his college campus after Jacob Blake was shot by police in Kenosha, Wisconsin, in August. When no local protests materialized in the small, predominantly white city of Manhattan, Kansas, he went out with a homemade sign displaying a quote from a Roots song: “Wolves disguised as sheep patrol our streets.” The responses to both Kodira and Morris’s activism have been mixed. While there were those who offered water or a supportive honk, others flipped them off or, in Kodira’s case, revved their car engines aggressively, he says. Kiera Perkins, 23, a graduate student studying education, was similarly inspired to mount a one-person rally with a Black Lives Matter sign in the small Western New York village of Attica. After a few hours, a woman came out to stand next to her with a tub of cow manure and a sign that said “cow manure matters.” The local news ended up picking up the story. But the incident led Perkins to launch a Black Lives Matter Attica Facebook page, where she and others worked to educate the community about the movement and post about upcoming events. One week after her solo protest, members of the Facebook group held a second demonstration at the same location — keeping the chain of activism going. Back in Shoreline, Kailyn Jordan found that her solo protest was powerful enough to change her life. She’s become active in the local Black Lives Matter movement, helps plan daily “chalk rallies” in which community members write messages around her neighbors’ homes, and has spoken at several racial justice gatherings. “Looking back, it was hard to believe that that was such a pivotal moment for me,” she says. “I didn’t know that one thing like that could have created so many great things.”