Government of National Accord soldiers sort ammunition for disposal in Tripoli, Libya, on Oct. 12. Photographer: Mahmud Turkia/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Mahmud Turkia/AFP via Getty Images Warring parties in Libya signed a permanent cease-fire agreement ahead of a conference to appoint a unity government for the fractured North African country. Representatives of the internationally recognized government based in Tripoli and eastern military commander Khalifa Haftar agreed to the cease-fire after talks in Geneva, the United Nations said Friday. The pact promises to end a war started last year when Haftar launched an offensive to capture the capital that drew in military intervention by the United Arab Emirates, Turkey and Russia. The truce could also lead to a further expansion in Libyan oil production. “I hope this agreement ends the suffering of the Libyan people,” UN acting envoy Stephanie Williams told the Libyan delegates at the signing ceremony. “We still have much work in the coming weeks” to implement the deal. Libya’s rivals are set to meet next month for a conference in Tunisia to appoint a unity government that would prepare for elections. Those talks had been scheduled for October in Geneva but were postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic. What Lies Behind the Nine Years of Turmoil in Libya: QuickTake Libya has been wracked by violence since a NATO-backed revolt ousted leader Muammar al-Qaddafi in 2011. The latest war -- launched by Haftar in April 2019 just weeks ahead of a UN-sponsored peace conference -- has left both sides reliant on foreign powers contesting the spoils in the oil-rich country. Haftar is supported by Russian mercenaries from the Wagner Group, headed by a confidante of President Vladimir Putin, as well as UAE airpower. The Tripoli-based government relied on thousands of Syrian mercenaries recruited by Turkey, and Turkish drone strikes, to repel Haftar’s offensive. An informal truce had been in effect since June, when Haftar declared a cease-fire that was later reciprocated by Tripoli. That agreement created a de facto buffer zone in the Haftar-controlled city of Sirte in central Libya, where Wagner mercenaries backed by Russian-supplied jet fighters have dug in. The pact signed on Friday calls for the withdrawal of Libyan forces to their bases and for foreign forces to leave within three months, Williams said at a press conference. A joint police force would replace them. But it wasn’t immediately clear whether Russia and Turkey had agreed to withdraw all their personnel --the two countries have been negotiating a separate deal, and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the cease-fire announced Friday didn’t inspire trust. “This is a Libyan-led process with a Libyan ceasefire, and I ask all countries that are involved in the conflict to fully support the Libyans in implementing this ceasefire,” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told journalists following a question about the lack of Turkish support for the deal. A blockade of many of the country’s energy facilities ended last month, and the state energy firm has been ramping up production faster than many analysts expected. Output reached 560,000 barrels a day on Wednesday, a person with knowledge of the matter said, up from 150,000 in September. If the truce sticks, production could reach 1 million barrels a day by March, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Before the shutdowns in January, Libya had ambitious plans to raise output to 1.5 million barrels a day this year and more than 2 million by 2024. Those targets look more challenging now, given the dilapidated state of the nation’s oil infrastructure. Still, further increases in Libyan production are sure to rattle OPEC and its allies such as Russia and Mexico. In light of the country’s civil war, OPEC+ exempted it from supply cuts that the coalition enacted in May to boost oil prices. — With assistance by Tarek El-Tablawy, and David Wainer