Many U.S. cities are stepping up public-safety trainings in case of voter intimidation — or even violence — on election day. Photographer: Maranie R. Staab/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Maranie R. Staab/AFP via Getty Images Fears of voter intimidation and civil unrest have prompted authorities in large urban centers to announce unprecedented steps meant to avoid clashes on Election Day and beyond. Chicago, Philadelphia and New York are among cities that have revealed plans to prevent violence on Nov. 3, when election observers worry polling sites could be targeted, or in the weeks that follow if historic levels of mail-in ballots preclude the declaration of an immediate winner. What’s less known is how smaller communities are preparing, even those that have seen some of the most intense violence by armed vigilantes during racial justice demonstrations — either because authorities have made no special preparations or don’t want to show their hand. Unfounded assertions of fraud by President Donald Trump and his supporters had raised the specter of such unrest even before 14 men were recently charged with plotting to kidnap Michigan’s Democratic governor, Gretchen Whitmer, and overthrow the state’s government. “We have concerns that these same groups might decide that they need to take it upon themselves to go to polls and protect against a fraudulent or rigged election,” said Mary McCord, legal director of Georgetown University’s Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection, at a press conference earlier this month. McCord has been advising cities, state attorneys general, and law enforcement about laws criminalizing private militia activity and how to enforce them. Read more: Americans Are Frantically Buying Military Gear Before Election Many municipalities didn’t respond to emails and phone messages seeking comment on their preparations; that included Kenosha, Wisconsin, where two protesters were killed in August. Other localities that saw militia activity at protests in recent months were among those that didn’t respond to repeated requests for interviews. They may have good reason for staying quiet — to avoid becoming targets like Whitmer, said Brooks Rainwater, director of the Center for City Solutions at the National League of Cities. “It says something about America right now that we have to have these conversations,” he said. By contrast, top prosecutors in states including Virginia, Maryland, Nevada, Wisconsin and Connecticut — as well as Washington, D.C. — have issued forceful statements against voter intimidation and threats. In Michigan, an open-carry state, officials announced a ban on guns in and around polling places. “Prohibiting the open-carry of firearms in areas where citizens cast their ballots is necessary to ensure every voter is protected,” Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson said in a statement. On Friday, Detroit’s police chief, James Craig, voiced support for the Second Amendment. “But I also support the fact that there is no place for open carry in close proximity to a polling location,” he said, adding that the department will be “out in mass,” though not at voting sites. “We will be in the area if there should be a problem.” The New York City Police Department is unaware of any credible threat associated with the election, said John Miller, deputy commissioner of intelligence and counterterrorism. Still, the department is setting up practice drills for possible scenarios such as natural disasters, protests and explosive devices. In a memo, Police Commissioner Dermot Shea said the department should “anticipate and prepare for protests growing in size, frequency, and intensity leading up to the election and likely into the year 2021.” New York Mayor Bill de Blasio on Friday announced the creation of an NYC Election Observer Corps — a group of volunteers outside polling sites that can direct voters to assistance hotlines and report any instance of voter intimidation, suppression or harassment. “In the vast majority of places, voting will go off without a hitch with no disturbances.” In Chicago, a frequent target of Trump’s in the wake of protests and looting following the death of George Floyd, the city has performed public-safety drills to prepare for the election, according to a statement from Mayor Lori Lightfoot. And the city’s police department canceled vacation days for those assigned to protest management and critical infrastructure protection. Miami’s department also put a moratorium on granting vacation and time off as part of election preparations. Minneapolis, where Floyd was killed, is running its election headquarters through an Emergency Operations Center, coordinating communications and response with the fire, police, 911 and 311 departments at the city, county and state level. "We've done all we can to assure our voters that we are serious about the safety of polling places, that we do have security plans in place, that we do have the capacity to respond in real time," said Casey Carl, Minneapolis's city clerk. Officials called sergeants-at-arms will be at each polling place, monitoring and enforcing a 100-foot buffer zone. Leaders elsewhere are making similar preparations by training election officials to de-escalate threats and work with police to counteract suppression at the polls. But most declined to share specific strategies, citing security concerns and the implicit tension between guarding polling sites without adding to already heightened anxiety. “We don’t want to give away some of the secret recipe, as it were,” said Nick Jacobs, a spokesperson for the Washington, D.C., Board of Elections. This election cycle has “all the earmarks of being very contentious,” said Andrew Walsh, deputy chief of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department. Police want to ensure everyone can vote without interference but are not planning a physical presence at polling sites to avoid the appearance of intimidation, he said. In some cities, concerns linger about the behavior of local law enforcement. A New York police officer was suspended for 30 days without pay Sunday after he'd been recorded promoting Trump's candidacy on his squad-car loudspeaker while patrolling Brooklyn. In Philadelphia, District Attorney Lawrence Krasner criminally charged two law enforcement officers in June and July for their actions against protesters during this summer’s demonstrations. He charged a third officer on Oct. 22. Krasner’s office has built a task force of 80 prosecutors and detectives aimed at combating voter suppression threats and responding to any potential criminal activity at polls. “We look forward to cooperating with law enforcement, but we’re prepared to move forward with or without it,” he said in a news conference earlier this month. The greatest risk for clashes is in swing states, especially where conservative rural areas surround politically progressive cities, said Sean Morales-Doyle, the director of a program on voting rights at the Brennan Center, a nonpartisan legal research center. “We need to be on watch, paying attention, and prepared to respond,” he said, “and law enforcement needs to be doing the same.” But he also warned that overemphasizing safety risks could contribute to tensions. “In the vast majority of places, voting will go off without a hitch with no disturbances,” Morales-Doyle said. In fact, many cities are treating this year’s election as relatively ordinary, with some additional tweaks. “We are preparing like any other big event,” said Sgt. Rod Mauldin, a public information officer with Alabama’s Birmingham Police Department, which plans to station officers at every polling site on Nov. 3. Emphasizing that Florida is not an open-carry state, Tampa Mayor Jane Castor said preparing extensive contingency plans for a violent altercation is a “solution in search of a problem.” She said police will stay “away from polling sites unless they happen to be going in to cast a vote.” Officials in Louisville, where protests broke out over the fatal shooting of Breonna Taylor, were similarly confident. “We have adequate security at all polling spots,” said Lieutenant Colonel Carl Yates, the public information officer for the Jefferson County sheriff’s department. “We have no reason to believe at this time that there [are] any threats or any problems.” Even officials in smaller towns that saw tensions recently aren’t necessarily taking extra preparations. During Black Lives Matter protests in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho, earlier this year, armed residents poured into the streets for several nights after false rumors of antifa threats circulated online. Local Democrats fear that voter intimidation could take a similar form on Nov. 3, but City Attorney Mike Gridley said those events had no connection to what might happen on Election Day. “Though we’re aware of heightened emotions over the election, we are not taking any special precautions at this point,” he said. — With assistance by Henry Goldman, and Brenna Goth