Healthcare workers treat a Covid-19 patient at the Intensive Care Unit of the Ramon y Cajal Hospital in Madrid on Oct. 15. Photographer: Oscar del Pozo/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Oscar del Pozo/AFP via Getty Images Spain became the first nation in Western Europe with 1 million coronavirus cases as the continent struggles with an escalating outbreak. South Korea added the most new daily infections in a month. The U.S. trials of vaccines made by AstraZeneca Plc and Johnson & Johnson may resume as soon as next week, according to the head of the government’s Operation Warp Speed program. A participant who died during Astra’s study in Brazil hadn’t received the company’s shot, a person familiar with the matter said. U.S. hospitalizations for Covid-19 have reached a two-month high, led by the Midwest. New York state’s new virus cases exceeded 2,000 for the first time since May. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro blasted a Chinese coronavirus vaccine being tested in the country just a day after his health minister said it would be distributed nationwide. “The Brazilian people WON’T BE ANYONE’S GUINEA PIG,” he wrote on his Facebook and Twitter pages, adding that billions can’t be spent on medication that is still being tested. “My decision is to not acquire the aforementioned vaccine.” The health ministry had announced a deal to purchase the Coronavac vaccine that’s being developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. in partnership with Sao Paulo’s Butantan Institute -- under the watch of Governor Joao Doria, one of Bolsonaro’s main political enemies. The agreement prompted a flurry of negative comments from Bolsonaro’s more ideological supporters who oppose the purchase of a vaccine from China. South Korea reported 121 more coronavirus cases on Thursday, up from 91 cases a day earlier. The number of new infections is the biggest in a month, with 62 cases in Gyeonggi and 18 in Seoul. Cluster infections in nursing hospitals and senior-care centers have continued, Yonhap News reported, citing Vice Minister of Interior and Safety Kim Gye-jo. Uruguay’s government issued a 30-day ban on public events and private parties in the province of Rivera that borders Brazil amid a recent surge in Covid-19 cases. It also suspended non-life threatening surgical procedures and made school attendance optional. Businesses that don’t observe the preventive measures could be fined as much as 1.2 million pesos ($28,000). Rivera accounted for 27% of Uruguay’s active cases as of Wednesday, following Montevideo with 49%. The Czech Republic registered a daily record of 14,968 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, Health Ministry data show early on Thursday, confirming the worst current outbreak of the disease in Europe adjusted for population. The government on Wednesday approved a series of measures to minimize social contacts, shutting down non-essential shops and limiting movement of people to commuting to and from work and several other exceptions. A United Airlines Holdings Inc. flight from London to Newark, New Jersey, performed the first U.S. trial of a new digital health app designed to share travelers’ coronavirus test results. The CommonPass mobile app, created by the Commons Project Foundation and the World Economic Forum, is seen as a tool to help governments reopen borders by providing test data. The approach offers a common standard while avoiding paper documents and the risk of identity fraud, Paul Meyer, the foundation’s chief executive officer, said at a news conference in Newark. Moncef Slaoui Photographer: Stefani Reynolds/CNP/Bloomberg Moncef Slaoui, the head of Operation Warp Speed, said he expects the U.S. trials of vaccines made by AstraZeneca Plc and Johnson & Johnson to restart as soon as this week. The two companies developing Covid-19 vaccines backed by Operation Warp Speed temporarily halted their trials because participants fell ill, slowing down the race for a shot to halt the pandemic. “It’s for the FDA to announce and decide, but I understand that this is imminent,” Slaoui said in an interview when asked if AstraZeneca could resume its trial this week. “I hope that the J&J trial also will restart later this week.” U.S. hospitalizations for Covid-19 hit the highest point since Aug. 22, with New York doubling its count from early September and at least 10 other states reporting records. Texas virus hospitalizations jumped to almost 5,000 on Wednesday, the third straight daily increase. The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, meanwhile, cited four national studies that predicted a probable in-patient increase of as much as 6,200 daily over the next four weeks. New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy placed himself in quarantine after coming into contact over the weekend with a senior staff member who tested positive for Covid-19. Murphy said he had no symptoms of the virus, which has killed more than 14,000 people in the state. Spain became the first country in Western Europe to surpass 1 million coronavirus infections, as authorities struggle to control fresh outbreaks and contemplate a curfew for the capital Madrid. Some 6,114 new cases were detected in the past 24 hours, bringing the total to 1,005,295, according to Health Ministry data published Wednesday. Healthcare workers tend to a Covid-19 patient at a hospital in Madrid on Oct. 15. Photographer: Oscar del Pozo/AFP via Getty Images A curfew in Madrid would be the latest move by European governments to tighten restrictions amid an unrelenting spread of the disease. The capital was already hit with new restrictions this month when Socialist Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez declared a state of emergency for the Madrid region, which has a population of almost 7 million. New York state posted more than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time since May, a surge that officials are desperate to head off as they prepare to distribute vaccines in the new year. Of the nearly 125,000 tests conducted statewide on Tuesday, 1.6% were positive, Governor Andrew Cuomo said Wednesday during a briefing in Albany. Excluding hot spots resulted in a 1.4% positive average. “Though we made a lot of progress, the numbers are still not acceptable,” he said. WATCH: NY Gov. Cuomo says developing and distributing a Covid-19 vaccine will be an enormous undertaking for state and local governments. Source: Bloomberg) Greece saw a second straight record day for new cases. The country reported 865 new coronavirus cases, bringing the total to 27,334. It recorded six more deaths in the past 24 hours with the total number of dead at 534. The northwestern city of Kastoria is being raised to level four, the ighest risk, with local lockdown measures to be introduced from 6 a.m. on Oct. 24, Deputy Citizen Protection Nikos Hardalias said Wednesday. Four areas, including the second-largest city of Thessaloniki, are being moved to level three from two, which means stricter measures including the compulsory wearing of face masks in indoor workplaces and outdoors where crowds gather. New York City officials are beginning to plan for wide-scal distribution of a Covid-19 virus vaccine next year, Mayor Bill de Blasio said. Acting on state recommendations presented by Governor Andrew Cuomo, the mayor said the city would prioritize delivery of the vaccine to health-care workers, front line and essential workers and those whose medical conditions or age makes them most vulnerable to the virus, the mayor said. Pharmacies, urgent-care clinics, public and private hospitals and current Covid testing sites will be used as inoculation centers for the general population in a second phase of distribution, the mayor said. An empty classroom in Naples after mandatory school closures, Oct. 21. Photographer: Salvatore Laporta/KONTROLAB/LightRocket via Getty Images Italy reported record new infections on Wednesday just a day before Milan, the country’s financial capital, starts a night-time curfew. New virus cases rose by 15,199, a 40% increase compared to Tuesday and well above previous record of 11,705. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said he cannot rule out further regional curbs as the country faces an accelerated spread of the pandemic. — With assistance by Ville Heiskanen