Asian stocks looked primed for losses after shares tumbled in the U.S. and Europe, as rising coronavirus infections and tougher lockdowns added to worries about the economic hit from the pandemic. Futures pointed lower in Japan, Australia and Hong Kong. S&P 500 contracts ticked higher after the benchmark lost 3.5% for its biggest drop since June, while a gauge of U.S. equity volatility surged. The dollar rose against every G-10 peer save the yen, with the Aussie among the weakest performers. Treasuries were little changed, keeping 10-year yields around 0.77%, while gold declined. Oil fell more than 5% on concern raging infections will sap demand. In China, nearly 1,000 firms are due to release third-quarter earnings on Thursday, with traders looking to see if the results confirm the nation’s accelerating recovery. The MSCI global equities gauge is down almost 5% this week as virus cases surge and American lawmakers failed to agree on an economic aid package before the Nov. 3 election. Germany and France are imposing stricter nationwide lockdowns, while Italy, Spain and the U.K. all reported record case numbers on Wednesday. “We’ve got the election hanging over our heads. Then obviously Covid accelerating to the degree that it has both here in the U.S. as well as in Europe,” said Lori Heinel, deputy global chief investment officer at State Street Global Advisors. “And then you’ve got the lack of stimulus, which in our estimation is still necessary to get us through this period until we get an ultimate medical solution.” Elsewhere, the pound steadied as European Union and U.K. negotiators made progress toward resolving some of the biggest disagreements, raising hopes that a Brexit deal could be reached by early November. These are some events to watch this week: Mark Andersen, co-head of global asset allocation at UBS, says this could be an opportunity for some investors heading into next year. Source: Bloomberg Here are the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Sarah Ponczek, Claire Ballentine, and Nancy Moran