Goldman Sachs Group Inc. joined other big U.S. banks in cashing in on continuing pandemic-induced volatility, as the firm’s bond traders posted the biggest jump on Wall Street so far.Third-quarter revenue from buying and selling stocks and bonds increased 29%, driven by a 49% surge in fixed-income trading and mirroring similar gains reported Tuesday by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. Revenue at each of Goldman’s four divisions rose from a year earlier, pushing earnings per share to a record that was almost twice as high as analysts predicted. Many investors were expecting Goldman to beat estimates, “but nowhere close to this order of magnitude, with strength coming from both high- and low-quality sources,” Steven Chubak, an analyst at Wolfe Research, wrote in a note. “Whatever your whisper number was, they crushed that too.” Trading gains since the start of the pandemic have helped offset weakness in consumer businesses at the nation’s biggest banks, where loan-loss provisions piled up in the first half of the year. For Goldman, which is still a minnow in the world of retail banking, dealmaking and trading divisions have helped cushion its stock price from the kinds of steep declines some of its competitors have experienced. Shares of the company are down 7.3% this year, compared with an 19% decline for the S&P 500 Financials Index. They climbed 1% to $212.90 at 9:38 a.m. in New York. The firm also posted a surprise drop from a year earlier in its loan-loss provisions, echoing its bigger rivals in socking away a much smaller amount for credit losses. The stockpile amounted to just $278 million in the third quarter, down from $1.6 billion for the previous three months. The decline was mostly tied to corporate and consumer borrowers paying down loans, Goldman said. Goldman's bond traders post a 49% revenue increase from a year earlier Source: Company filings  Citigroup’s bond-trading revenue jumped 18% from a year earlier and its stock traders saw a 15% increase. At JPMorgan, fixed-income trading revenue increased 29% and equities advanced 32%. Bank of America Corp. missed out on the surge, posting a 3.6% climb that fell short of estimates. Read more about Bank of America’s earnings Goldman’s fees from helping put together deals for companies dropped 27% to $507 million. Underwriting revenue of $1.43 billion topped analysts’ average estimate of $1.3 billion. Goldman’s consumer operation cracked $1 billion in trailing 12-month revenue for the first time since it started operations four years ago. The firm’s equity investments delivered $1.4 billion of gains, more than double that of a year earlier, as it benefited from rallying markets, according to a statement from the New York-based firm Wednesday. That generated a bigger increase for the $3 billion public-equities portfolio than for the firm’s $16 billion in private holdings. The bank’s lending portfolio also stayed on the mend after a big writedown at the start of the year. Goldman has been working to manage more client money to generate steady recurring fees, even though the strategy limits big wins that could come from wagering more of its own money. It’s closing in on raising about $14 billion for a new credit fund -- the biggest pool of investment cash it has raised in more than a decade. Goldman’s consumer deposits climbed at a slower pace than in the second quarter. Its money-management arm posted a 3% drop in assets under management, mostly driven by a decline in liquidity products. Net income almost doubled from a year earlier to $3.62 billion. Earnings per share were a record $9.68, far surpassing analysts’ estimates for $5.53. — With assistance by Felice Maranz