People line up to vote at the Masjidullah Mosque in Philadelphia in June. Photographer: Hannah Yoon/Bloomberg Photographer: Hannah Yoon/Bloomberg In the lead-up to the election, U.S. President Donald Trump and the Republican Party have made repeated comments about dispatching law enforcement officials and other concerned citizens to monitor urban polling centers, based on claims of massive voter fraud. He has been frank about targeting “Democrat cities” and he has the full weight of the U.S. Attorney General Bill Barr behind him pledging to do the same. Despite the fact that voter fraud occurrences are exceptionally rare, the Trump administration’s threats have shaken the nerves of many voters, especially Black and Latino voters, given that these are the populations historically targeted for poll-watcher operations that intimidate voters and  challenge the eligibility of their voting credentials. Trump is certainly not the first political leader to dial up voter fraud claims nor to threaten to commission poll watcher armies, but his might be the boldest and most consequential on record. Some experts are saying that what he’s calling for is unlawful, but there are far fewer legal restrictions in place today than there have been in the last 40 years. That’s because a court-ordered consent decree in place since 1982 that prohibited the Republican Party from engaging in nuisance voter challenges and intimidation activities was allowed to expire in 2018. Meaning, the Trump administration has far more leverage and leeway now to wreak havoc on voters than at any other point in our recent history. “The elimination of the RNC consent decree has resulted in open season for operatives who seek to exploit this moment,” said Kristen Clarke, the executive director of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, in a press call last Friday. “This is an explosive, dangerous and toxic situation.” That consent decree, a court-monitored agreement that limited what the Republican National Committee could do in its attempts to invalidate voters’ eligibility, halted for several decades various modes of voter harassment and intimidation that have echoes in the actions of the Trump administration and Republican Party today. This fall, the RNC is organizing a nationwide 50,000-volunteer network of poll watchers and a $20 million stockpile for legal battles. RNC National Press Secretary Mandi Merritt says the poll watchers do intend to watch for fraud, but are “not there to be intimidating.” “While one of the legitimate purposes for poll watching is to observe the elections process to document potential fraud or irregularities, it’s just as much about getting out the vote,” Merritt said in an email. “ It’s about getting more people to vote, not less.” The consent decree was critical in identifying the kinds of behavior and activities that would not be tolerated in the milieu after the landmark Voting Rights Act was passed. To understand what tactics poll watchers could adopt today, it’s worth looking at what activities got the party banned from polling places and landed them under court supervision from 1982 until 2018. The modern-day era of voter fraud allegations and nefarious poll watching began in the early 1980s not in the Jim Crow South, but in New Jersey. There, a team called the “National Ballot Security Task Force,” which was manned by members of the Republican National Committee and the New Jersey Republican State Committee, concocted a scheme that effectively made it harder for many minorities to register and to vote, by questioning the validity of their credentials. For the 1981 general election, the Task Force sent letters to certain voters in Black and Latino neighborhoods in New Jersey who appeared to no longer live at the addresses in their voter files. When those letters came back as undeliverable, the Task Force compiled those names and demanded that election officials purge them from voting lists. But those officials rejected the lists. They already had a system for identifying voters whose addresses were out of date: They sent sample ballots out to voters and if they were returned as undeliverable, those names were used to locate the voters to send them change of address forms, so the voters could update their files. What the Ballot Security Task Force was doing was called “voter caging” — a violation of the Voting Rights Act, when used against voters of color — and this became one of the main activities banned in the consent decree signed the following year. When the Task Force found they couldn’t have their way with election officials, they built an above-ground campaign to confront and challenge voters as they made their way to the polls. They hired county sheriffs and local police to patrol polling places in Black and Latino neighborhoods searching for people they accused of attempting to vote fraudulently. A sheriff deputized John A. Kelly, an RNC employee and director of the Task Force, who had lied to the sheriff’s office saying he was a former police officer and lawyer to get the badge. The patrol members openly flashed their guns and badges and wore armbands with the “National Ballot Security Task Force” name on it. The optics made it seem as if they were working in official law enforcement capacity, which they were not, and completely obscured the fact that they were agents of the Republican Party. Their approach to voters was hands-on. The 1981 complaint that led to the consent decree said that Task Force members were stopping and questioning voters, refusing some entry to polling stations, ripping down other candidates’ signs and “forcibly restraining poll workers from assisting” voters. Lynette Monroe, a Black woman from Trenton, was stopped by several Task Force members and asked if she had her voter registration card on her, which she did not. “The members of the Task Force standing outside of the polling place at which Plaintiff Monroe was entitled to vote turned her away, preventing her from casting her ballot,” reads the complaint. Those cumulative actions — the voter caging and voter stalking — are what led the Democratic National Committee to sue the RNC, which was resolved with  a court-monitored agreement in November 1982 that committed the Republicans to refrain from interrogating voters as they approached polling places. It also prohibited them from carrying out any caging or “ballot security activities” in minority-majority districts. The RNC would violate the agreement if anything they did during election periods ended up deterring minorities from voting whether that was intentional or just the outcome. In 1987, Republican agents were found again cooking up schemes to stop Black people from voting, this time in Louisiana. The consent decree was expanded, and this time not only could Republicans not conduct “ballot security” operations that targeted Black people — they now weren’t allowed to directly conduct such activities for any voters. It didn’t end there. In 2004, then-Senator Tom Daschle, fighting to retain his seat in a re-election bid, sued the RNC accusing them of sending agents to follow Native Americans to their cars at several polling places and writing down the voters’ license plate info. In other instances, RNC agents were found “standing two to three feet behind Native American voters, and ostentatiously making notes, all intended to intimidate and deter” them. A judge agreed that this was untoward behavior and granted yet another restraining order against the RNC. “Whether the intimidation was intended or simply the result of excessive zeal is not the issue, as the result was the intimidation of prospective Native American voters,” read the judge’s ruling. In 2008, the RNC became the subject of yet another lawsuit, this time from Barack Obama during his first run for president, for intimidating Latino voters in New Mexico. According to the complaint, the RNC hired private investigators to look into the backgrounds of Democratic voters, by poring through voters’ personal data under the guise of exposing “illegal aliens” trying to vote. The New Mexico Republican Party confirmed as much when it held a press conference that detailed its investigations, and then passed out press packets, which contained voters’ Social Security numbers, home addresses, phone numbers, and even credit reports — essentially doxing innocent New Mexico residents. The private investigators also showed up at the homes of some of the voters to interrogate them about their immigration status. The complaint, filed with the DNC, also pointed to other outlawed “ballot security” measures that Republican agents were taking in other states: In Wisconsin, the Republican Party publicly recruited private citizens and off-duty law enforcement personnel to join watchdog groups “to intimidate voters, reminiscent of the original Ballot Security Task Force”; in Montana, Republican Party agents filed “facially frivolous” challenges against more than 6,000 voters to have them purged from poll lists; and, in Florida, the Republican Party sought to take advantage of the foreclosure crisis by using lists of people who had recently lost their homes to challenge the validity of their voter files. The consent decree against the RNC continued to expand to rope in various forms of horseplay over the last four decades as agents of the Republican Party continued to violate the terms. Meanwhile, no evidence emerged in all of that time of the rampant voter fraud Republicans claimed to be ferreting out. In 2016, the RNC filed a motion to allow the consent decree to expire. The DNC opposed it, detailing in a court motion the many ways that Republicans were continuing to violate the agreement’s terms, this time in coordination with the Trump campaign: Although certain RNC officials have attempted to distance themselves from some of the Trump campaign’s more recent statements, there is now ample evidence that Trump has enjoyed the direct and tacit support of the RNC in its “ballot security” endeavors, including the RNC’s collaboration on efforts to prevent this supposed “rigging” and “voter fraud.” … The RNC’s support of Trump’s efforts to recruit “watchers” who are intended to intimidate voters at their polling places violates this Court’s Consent Decree as modified in 2009, which explicitly forbid the RNC from engaging in so-called “ballot security” measures directly, indirectly, or through its agents or employees. A federal judge ruled that while the DNC “made a colorable showing of a possible breach” of the consent decree, their evidence only “at most demonstrates a possible violation,” and was not sufficient to extend the decree. The court allowed the consent decree to expire. What this means for 2020 is that all of the aforementioned activities of intimidation and harassment could be back in play for this election, even if most of them remain illegal under the Voting Rights Act. Trump wanted to  unleash an armada of poll watchers in his 2016 election bid, but it didn’t fully materialize, likely in part because he didn’t yet have the political power to carry it out. But now with court restraining orders removed, he can, as Jim Rutenberg painfully laid out for The New York Times Magazine, “use the full force of the federal government to attack the democratic process, suppress the votes of American citizens and spread grievance and suspicion among his followers.” Trump’s plans for the next few weeks are clear: “We’re going to have sheriffs, and we’re going to have law enforcement, and we’re going to hopefully have U.S. attorneys and we’re going to have everybody, and attorney generals,” he told Fox News in August. U.S. Attorney General Barr is already planning to have Department of Justice officials huddled at the FBI headquarters to commandeer federal responses to anticipated violent outbreaks on Election Day. On Oct. 1, a group of more than 1,600 former DOJ attorneys signed a public letter castigating Barr, saying he “intends to use the DOJ’s vast law enforcement powers to undermine our most fundamental democratic value: free and fair elections.” The Trump campaign has already sent unauthorized poll watchers to satellite election offices in Philadelphia to challenge the handling of mailed-in ballots in ways it could have never done over the past few decades. Without the consent decree in place, there is the risk of something worse than voter intimidation. The possibility of voter terrorization has become more real given the aggressive presence of armed patrols at recent protests over police violence, wearing masks and  Confederate monuments. If there is Election Day violence, much of it will likely be because of the vigilante watchmen that the Trump administration itself has summoned. On the press call hosted last Friday by the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, former FBI assistant director of counterintelligence Frank Figliuzzi confirmed that several groups were gearing up for confrontations with voters in the weeks ahead. “What I feel quite comfortable saying is that right-wing extremists groups, including QAnon, Proud Boys and violent militia groups are all using the language of violent conflict in both their public and in their private communications online,” said Figliuzzi. “They’re calling for a physical response and presence to polling places, planning for rallies and training sessions on how to turn out. So the specter of people who are violent in nature and have violent agendas and often come armed with guns is becoming a very real possibility.” It’s important to note that there are still rules around what can and can’t be done in terms of engaging with voters on Election Day. At the bare minimum, you cannot bring guns in or around polling locations, and while the rules vary across cities and counties, there is usually a buffer around polling places where no weapons can be present. There is also still a Voting Rights Act, among other protections against voter intimidation and deterrence. And the attorneys general of Michigan, Nevada, and Wisconsin, all battleground states, have pledged to prosecute anyone who tries to intimidate voters. "[T]he law is crystal clear: It is illegal to deploy federal troops or armed federal law enforcement officers to any polling place,” reads a newly released report from the Brennan Center for Justice on voter intimidation. “State and local laws and practices place limits on the role of law enforcement and poll watchers. And a host of federal and state laws, many of which also carry severe criminal penalties, prevent anyone — whether a law enforcement officer or a vigilante — from harassing or intimidating voters." In fact, it is because of the Voting Rights Act and former consent decree restrictions that there has always been another kind of poll monitor whose focus has not been rooting out so-called voter fraud but instead enforcing the rules and helping voters. Historically, many organizations and government agencies have deployed poll monitors during elections who assist disabled, elderly or even just confused voters; and protect Black voters and other minorities who were historically denied their voting rights. The Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law announced it was deploying more than 21,000 lawyers to polls this year. Meanwhile, the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund is working with NBA star LeBron James to recruit 10,000 volunteers to help staff the polls. These election protectors have been there in past campaigns to thwart sinister poll watcher efforts. Between the effect of these teams and media exposure, these past threats have usually ended up having minimal effects. When asked what made this year’s threats of voter surveillance and violence different than past elections, Figliuzzi said the president’s signaling was the wild card, particularly Trump’s refusal to denounce white supremacists at the most recent debate. (He has since denounced white supremacists.) “We have a president who serves as a kind of instigator or even radicalizer who [white supremacists and armed militias] look to for encouragement and inspiration, and they’ve lacked that kind of thing in the past,” said Figliuzzi. “The second is we now have a solid track record of armed militia types and other extremists groups and members showing up en masse at state capitals, on the streets as protesters and counter-protesters, so mobilization has already occurred. We've got a set of data that tells us what can happen and what has happened, and we have a leader who at best won’t denounce it and is maybe even encouraging it.”