Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Millions across Europe faced greater restrictions on their movement over the weekend, with Italy readying new measures and London and Paris enforcing tighter curbs, in an escalating effort to check the surge in coronavirus cases. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte may order bars and restaurants to close at 10 p.m., ban some sporting activities and change the hours for high schools to prevent congestion, according to officials in his government, who asked not to be identified in line with their policy. He is set to announce his plans on Sunday. In London, new rules took effect on Saturday banning people from mixing with other households indoors, while in Paris and eight other French cities, residents are now confined to home between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. for four weeks. In Belgium, which has the most cases per-capita in Europe except for the Czech Republic, the government announced plans for new restrictions nationwide starting on Monday. With the exception of Belgium, Europe’s leaders have mostly stuck to local restrictions targeted at urban virus hot spots after broad lockdowns earlier this year triggered some of the worst recessions in living memory. But with the region heading into the winter, when people will be unable to spend as much time outdoors and transmission rates are likely to rise, getting back to any sense of normality appears some way off. “How winter and Christmas work out will be decided in the coming days and weeks through the sum of individual actions,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel warned in her weekly podcast, stressing the importance of refraining from unnecessary journeys and celebrations. Pedestrians wearing protective face masks cross Westminster Bridge in view of the London Eye Ferris wheel in London, on Oct. 15. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg The increased restrictions come as new cases hit daily records across much of Europe. France reported 32,427 infections on Saturday, Italy 10,925, the U.K. 16,171 and Germany 7,695. Italy’s coalition is divided over the new restrictions. Some in the government are seeking even tougher rules while Conte insists that the outbreak now is much different from what the country faced earlier this year, so the measures should mirror the current situation, Italian media including Il Corriere della Sera reported. Regional leaders are meeting Sunday with some ministers to try and agree on new rules, which Conte will announce later in the day. Authorities in the Lombardy region, which includes the financial capital of Milan, already on Friday told bars and restaurants to start closing at midnight, suspended gaming, and banned establishments from serving alcohol after 6 p.m. except to patrons seated at tables. Restrictions for high schools and sports events were also announced. Covid-19 cases per 100,000 people over the past 14 days Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  In Belgium, Prime Minister Alexander de Croo said hospitality restrictions, along with a midnight to 5 a.m. curfew and curbs on alcohol sales and gatherings, will take effect Monday for four weeks. Work from home will be mandatory wherever possible. Bars in Brussels were already closed last week. “By many measures, the numbers are worse than they were in March or April,” De Croo said during a news conference. “And I bring no good message: those numbers will likely keep rising in the coming days.” Read more: Europe Is Losing Fight to Stay Open on Record Virus Surge Belgium’s experience suggests that the prospect of national shutdowns in growing likelier, even after leaders including U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and French President Emmanuel Macron vowed to do everything possible to keep their economies running. Coronavirus cases are climbing in Europe's biggest economies Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control * Figure per 100,000 people is based on a rolling 14-day cumulative total In Spain, bars and restaurants have closed down in the Catalonia region around Barcelona, while in Austria, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is attempting to channel what he called the “team spirit” citizens showed during the first wave of infections in the spring. The government has scheduled a meeting with the country’s nine provinces on Monday to decide how to reduce social contacts and avoid a second lockdown. — With assistance by Rodrigo Orihuela