Photographer: Jan Strandstrm/Folio Images Photographer: Jan Strandstrm/Folio Images Multiple U.S hospitals have been hit by a “coordinated” ransomware attack, according to the cybersecurity company FireEye Inc., with at least three publicly confirming being struck this week. Ransomware is a type of computer virus that locks up computers until a ransom is paid for a decryption key. A trio of federal agencies on Wednesday warned hospitals and cyber researchers on a phone call of a “credible threat” to the security of U.S.-based medical facilities and biopharmaceutical institutes, according to a person who participated in the call, who wasn’t authorized to speak to the media. The FBI, the Department of Health and Human Services and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security and known as CISA, said they’d received intelligence asserting that hackers were preparing to use Ryuk ransomware to attack medical facilities, using the Trickbot to distribute it, the person familiar with the matter said. The FBI and CISA didn’t return a request for comment. The attack was carried out by a financially motivated cybercrime group dubbed #UNC1878 by computer security researchers, according to Charles Carmakal, FireEye’s strategic services chief technology officer.. “We are experiencing the most significant cybersecurity threat we’ve ever seen in the United States,” he said. “#UNC1878, an Eastern European financially motivated threat actor, is deliberately targeting and disrupting U.S. hospitals, forcing them to divert patients to other health-care providers.” Multiple hospitals have already been significantly impacted by Ryuk ransomware and their networks have been taken offline, Carmakal added. “UNC1878 is one of most brazen, heartless, and disruptive threat actors I’ve observed over my career.” Trickbot claimed Monday in private communications channel to have attacked more than 400 hospitals in the U.S., said Alex Holden, the founder of the cyber investigations firm Hold Security. By Tuesday, the Trickbot attack group -- which frequently works with ransomware operators Ryuk -- claimed to have ransomed about 30 medical facilities around the country, Holden said. Cyber criminals running these malware and ransomware operations are known to embellish their achievements, he said.