Democratic nominee Joe Biden is ahead in Michigan and Wisconsin with three weeks to Election Day. The Trump campaign is touting voter registration numbers as an advantage. And Biden says nobody should question Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett’s faith. There are 22 days until the election and 64 days until the Electoral College meets. Other Developments: Biden is maintaining his lead in Michigan and Wisconsin, two key battleground states that President Donald Trump won in 2016, according to a Siena College/New York Times poll released Monday. With just three weeks until Election Day, 48% of likely Michigan voters backed Biden, while 40% supported Trump. In Wisconsin, 51% of likely voters backed Biden and 41% supported Trump. Biden has been ahead in every poll in Wisconsin since mid-August, and all but one poll in Michigan in that same time period. Trump won both states by the thinnest of margins in 2016: He had an edge of 0.23% in Michigan, and of 0.77% in Wisconsin. Yet this year, Biden is currently leading among respondents who voted for Trump or Clinton in 2016 as well as those who voted for minor-party candidates and those who did not vote. The poll also showed Democratic Senator Gary Peters essentially tied with Republican John James, at 43% and 42%, respectively, with an unusually high 13% of voters saying they didn’t know who they would support or not answering the question. The poll of 614 likely voters in Michigan was conducted Oct. 6-11. It has a margin of error of 4.6 percentage points. The poll of 789 likely voters in Wisconsin was conducted Oct. 8-11 and has a margin of error of 4 points. -- Josyana Joshua The Trump campaign is touting voter registration numbers to argue that polls aren’t showing what will happen on Election Day. With Trump behind in national polls as well as most recent battleground-state polls, campaign manager Bill Stepien told reporters Monday that new voter registration numbers in key states show an enthusiasm edge that’s not being captured. “Voter registration trends are simply not being reflected,” he said in a call with reporters. Republicans have cut into the Democrats’ voter registration advantage in Florida, North Carolina and Pennsylvania in recent months. Stepien also cited Arizona, where Democrats have cut into the Republicans’ traditional advantage, arguing that the GOP has registered more voters in the last three months. -- Misyrlena Egkolfopoulou Biden said Monday that Democrats should focus on Amy Coney Barrett’s views on health care, not her religious faith. As confirmation hearings began on Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Biden, who is a practicing Catholic like Barrett, told reporters at the New Castle Airport in Delaware that “nobody’s faith should be questioned.” “This nominee said she wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. The president wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act,” he said, citing the unified Democratic strategy on the Barrett confirmation. “Let’s keep our eye on the ball.” Biden also referenced the 2012 campaign in which Mitt Romney ran against Barack Obama. In 2011, Biden defended Romney’s Mormon faith, saying that it was “preposterous” to debate whether or not it was “disqualifying” and that it was “embarrassing and we should be ashamed” of anyone making that argument. -- Tyler Pager Trump’s views on three large Democratic-leaning states swings wildly between saying he might win them and harshly criticizing them. In recent days, Trump has suggested he could win New York and California, while the head of the Illinois Republican Party suggested during the Republican National Convention that the state could be in play. “We can win in California NOW!” Trump tweeted last week. But on Monday morning, Trump turned on the three states, tweeting that New York has “gone to hell,” California is “going to hell,” and Illinois “has no place to go.” New York has gone to hell. Vote Trump! “Illinois has no place to go,” he tweeted. “Sad, isn’t it? Vote Trump!” Trump is currently down 29 points in New York and 32 points in California in the RealClearPolitics average of polls. The most recent poll in Illinois had him down 13 points. Trump has railed against ballot drop boxes and so-called ballot harvesting, but California Republicans have embraced both in a strategy that may be against state law. The Orange County Register reports that unauthorized ballot drop boxes have been spotted in Fresno, Los Angeles and Orange County in party offices, candidate headquarters and churches, often with the words “official ballot drop off box” on them. The Fresno County Republican Party even posted a list of “secure” ballot collection sites on its website that included local businesses, gun shops and its own headquarters. Neither the locations or the drop boxes themselves are approved by county elections officials, and Secretary of State Alex Padilla said they are against state law, which requires officials follow strict guidelines to establish a chain of custody for ballots in drop boxes. On Twitter, the California Republican Party has defended the practice, noting that state law allows volunteers and campaign workers to collect ballots and turn them in at polling places. The Trump and Biden campaigns will celebrate two very different holidays on Monday. In Philadelphia, Trump attorney and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani will hold a Columbus Day rally with Italian Americans for Trump. “This event will highlight President Trump’s important accomplishments benefiting the Italian American Community as we celebrate Columbus Day,” the campaign website notes. The Biden campaign, meantime, will hold a virtual celebration for Indigenous Peoples’ Day. Over the last year, Trump has highlighted Columbus as a historical figure that he says liberals want to “cancel,” noting when Columbus statues have been taken down and including the explorer in his proposed National Garden of American Heroes. Last year, Biden and Trump marked the holiday with similarly different tweets. Happy Columbus Day! On #IndigenousPeoplesDay, we recognize the resiliency of indigenous communities and celebrate their rich contributions to society—while recommitting to the work that remains to come to terms with our past as a nation, to honor our promises, and work to right our wrongs. Pope Francis may prefer to stay out of U.S. politics, but he’s not having much luck. On Sunday, the Biden campaign ran an ad featuring a photo of the then-vice president meeting with the pope at the Vatican in 2016 which called him, a “devout Catholic guided by faith.” “For Joe Biden, faith isn’t a talking point,” the ad copy reads. “It’s the guiding light of his entire life.” Pope Francis recently turned down a meeting with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, which a Vatican official explained as a desire to avoid meeting political figures just before an election. Pompeo then published a letter criticizing the Vatican’s relationship with China. Biden is the fourth Catholic presidential nominee of a major party in the U.S., after Al Smith, John F. Kennedy and John Kerry. Catholic voters like Biden a lot more than they did Hillary Clinton. In an ABC News/Washington Post poll released Sunday, 51% of White Catholics backed Biden, while 45% backed Trump. In 2016 exit polls, 61% of White Catholics backed Trump, while only 37% voted for Clinton. A polling memo notes that the only two Democrats who have done as well with White Catholics were Jimmy Carter in 1976 and Bill Clinton in 1996. In the battleground states of Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Florida, more than 20% of adults are Catholic, making them a key target for presidential campaigns. The survey of 725 likely voters across the country was conducted Oct. 6-9. It has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points. Biden will visit Cincinnati on Monday. Trump will hold a rally Monday evening in Sanford, Florida. — With assistance by Tyler Pager, Misyrlena Egkolfopoulou, and Josyana Joshua