Emerging markets head into the last full trading week before the U.S. election with stocks and currencies near their highest levels since January and dollar-bond spreads close to their narrowest since February. Don’t expect it to get much better than that in coming days. Caution is likely to be the watchword for investors, with the Nov. 3 vote set to reveal not just whether Joe Biden’s opinion-poll lead over Donald Trump will propel him to victory, but also determine the fate of the much-anticipated U.S. stimulus package. And there’s always the risk of a contested result. “It makes sense for emerging-market investors to maintain only light (risk-bullish) positions in the remaining days before the U.S. election,” a Credit Suisse SA team including Kasper Bartholdy, managing director of fixed-income strategy in London, wrote in a report. “This is in part because we see sizable residual scope for the ‘Biden/Trump U.S. voter-support gap’ to fluctuate. It is also because we see a large risk that ongoing negotiations in the U.S. about pre-election fiscal-policy stimulus will falter and cause some temporary market consternation.” That investors are wary of putting too much on the line right now is already apparent. Implied currency volatility declined for a fourth week in the past five trading days, the longest streak since June. The main MSCI indexes of stocks and currencies barely budged Friday. A Bloomberg-Barclays gauge of emerging-market dollar bonds was also little changed. That’s not to say there aren’t plenty of emerging-market events to keep traders on their toes this week. China is reconsidering its strategy for the internationalization of the yuan and planning for more policy support as it prepares to hammer out the country’s future economic blueprint. South Africa will present its medium-term budget, which will set out the nation’s spending and borrowing targets for the next three years. And there are monetary-policy meetings in Brazil and Colombia. — With assistance by Nicholas Reynolds, and Philip Sanders