Members of Congress of South African Trade Unions march during a nationwide strike on Oct 7. Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter South Africa risks a public backlash and political upheaval after releasing a budget update that will freeze civil servants’ pay for three years and reduce other spending to tame runaway debt.The proposed spending curbs are the clearest sign yet that President Cyril Ramaphosa’s government won’t back down from a fight with politically influential labor groups representing 1.3 million state workers, even as it prepares for municipal elections next year. The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the largest worker federation, is already up in arms because the state reneged on a previous pay deal and has warned that a long-standing alliance with the ruling African National Congress could unravel. The National Treasury’s mid-term budget, released by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni on Wednesday, bleakly illustrates the effect the coronavirus and an associated lockdown has had on an economy that was already mired in recession before the pandemic struck. Gross domestic product is expected to contract 7.8% this year, tax revenues have fallen short of target and fiscal consolidation plans targeting a primary budget surplus have now been pushed out by two years until 2026. “We must rebuild our economy, rehabilitate our public finances and recover from the devastation wrought upon us by Covid-19,” Mboweni told lawmakers. “We cannot allow our recent fiscal weakness and the pandemic to turn into a sovereign debt crisis.” South African government debt is seen peaking at close to 100% of GDP Source: National Treasury Note: Date is for fiscal years ended March 31 The budget proposes reducing planned spending by about 300 billion rand ($18.3 billion) over the next three fiscal years, mainly by paring a salary bill that’s surged by 51% since 2008 and now equates to 11% of gross domestic product. Even if the government manages to overcome union opposition to the pay freeze, the budget deficit is still projected to reach 15.7% of GDP this year, the widest gap since 1914. The rand fell as much as 1.8% against the dollar and was 1.2% weaker at 16.3994 at 4:20 p.m. in Johannesburg. “The market is not enamored with the budget,” said Michelle Wohlberg, a fixed-income analyst at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg. “The higher debt stabilization is definitely a concern” and the pay freeze may not be possible, she said. The unions wield considerable clout in South Africa, and their backing helped Ramaphosa win control of the ruling party in December 2017 and the presidency two months later. In 2010, civil servants staged a strike that dragged on for three weeks before they were awarded an inflation-beating 7.5% raise. “Shifting the composition of spending away from the wage bill to growth-enhancing infrastructure, coupled with aggressive cutting in the later years rather than now, gives the economy a better chance of emerging from the crisis. In addition, the policy also remains mindful of the need to restore fiscal sustainability. The trouble, though, is that none of the critical assumptions the Treasury has made are set in stone, especially regarding the wage bill. This is where the Treasury has got it wrong.” --Boingotlo Gasealahwe, Africa economist. Click here to read the full REACT Cosatu rejected the pay proposal and slammed Mboweni for announcing it before talks had even begun, spokesman Sizwe Pamla said. “What we have now is a situation where the relations have broken down between workers and government,” he said. “They know they don’t have a partner in this government when it comes to wage negotiations. They cannot trust this government.” Without an agreement, state debt may exceed the projected 95.3% of GDP in 2026. That’s already up on the peak of 87.4% in 2024 that Mboweni projected in an emergency budget in June. While the Treasury plans to raise an extra 40 billion rand in taxes over the next four fiscal years, it acknowledged that recent attempts to increase revenue generated less money than expected and may have contributed to weak economic growth. — With assistance by Paul Vecchiatto, Gemma Gatticchi, and Monique Vanek