An empty storefront in downtown Concord, New Hampshire. Between February and June, about 1.2 million U.S. business owners had to shut down. The economic damage to America’s cities from Covid-19 is deep, and recovery will require more than defeating the pandemic. About 60% of business closures are now permanent, according to recent data from Yelp. Our cities won’t revive until we create new businesses to replace those lost. Fortunately, there are tools available to boost business starts and restarts. Entrepreneurship is the vaccine to revive our urban economies. Our cities face a deep entrepreneurial hole. Even before the pandemic, we were in a startup slump. Business creation in the U.S. had fallen overall to its lowest rate in more than 40 years. But then Covid-19 hit and forced many businesses to close. Between February and June, about 1.2 million U.S. business owners had to shut down, including 19% of Black entrepreneurs and 10% of Latinx ones. While our nation must focus on reopening existing businesses, historically it’s new businesses that create virtually all job growth, including replacing jobs lost. More businesses correlate with higher average incomes in communities. And firm creation correlates with a decrease in income inequality. To enhance entrepreneurship nationwide, America’s cities of all sizes must commit to business creation and growth. That starts with what cities already have. That means cataloging the latent assets in their ecosystems (including leaders, capital, educational institutions, corporate partners, service providers, mentors, entrepreneurial support programs, community gatherings and culture), removing barriers to entrepreneurs to access them, and mobilizing and coordinating resources to flow more efficiently. Fortunately, America’s cities and towns have enormous strengths on which to build new businesses. In my previous capacity as vice president of entrepreneurship at the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, I traveled throughout the nation supporting innovative champions of entrepreneurship in communities large and small. In my current capacity as founder and chief executive officer of Right to Start, a national campaign to advance entrepreneurship as a community priority, I am struck by the energy and vitality our communities are dedicating to entrepreneurship, even during this harsh pandemic. For example, I recently made “virtual roadtrips” to Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Peoria, Illinois, which were recorded on video. Our discussions in Tulsa focused on Black entrepreneurship, particularly as we approach the 100th anniversary next year of the racial violence that destroyed its once-thriving “Black Wall Street.” In Peoria, we discussed entrepreneurship in the agricultural and manufacturing heartland, especially in the context of the 2017 decision by the world’s largest construction-equipment maker, Caterpillar Inc., to move its headquarters to suburban Chicago. Both cities impressed me. Despite major local challenges — plus Covid-19 — they have extraordinary champions, energetic leaders, and determined entrepreneurs fighting to strengthen their economies while embracing the diversity and resilience of their populations. The core takeaway from my decades-long work in entrepreneurship is that it takes a community, and every community has what it takes. Communities have tools to take action. Right to Start, for instance, recently published a free “Field Guide for Policymakers” that provides immediate steps at all levels of government to drive recovery through entrepreneurship. It includes nine steps each for the federal and state government, and five for local policymakers. Here are the local ones, in brief: In addition, “America’s New Business Plan” — from a coalition that includes nonprofits and university centers — offers a fuller exploration of policy barriers to entrepreneurship and a long-term strategy for restoring the nation’s rate of new businesses. There are also programs that cities can activate locally to bring the entrepreneurial community together and mobilize its members to support each other. The nonprofit program 1 Million Cups, for example, has chapters in more than 160 communities, and growing. The Kauffman Foundation’s annual ESHIP Summit was just held virtually, and it still provides an extraordinary platform for convening, informing, and energizing entrepreneurial champions nationwide. Covid-19 is challenging our cities, but we are up to the challenge. That’s true whether we are one of the three Americans out of 1,000 each month who start new businesses, or we are among the 997 whose support is needed as customers, employees, collaborators, or simply allies of our entrepreneurs. America already has the vaccine needed to reenergize our communities and revive our businesses. We need to take advantage of its availability and make entrepreneurship a priority nationwide. Victor Hwang is Founder and CEO of Right to Start, a campaign to rebuild the American economy by putting entrepreneurs first.