Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP via Getty Images Stocks in Europe advaced amid a slew of positive corporate news that outweighed investor concern about new restrictions to curb the pandemic. American equity futures fluctuated as investors considered the stalemate over U.S. stimulus. LVMH shares jumped after the luxury-goods maker saw demand rebound in the third quarter, while Daimler lifted the auto sector after profit beat estimates, helped by recovering car sales. Thyssenkrupp surged as much as 25% after Liberty Steel made an offer for the German company’s steel unit. Boeing gained in U.S. pre-market trading after its 737 Max airliner was judged safe to fly by European regulators. Treasuries edged up and the dollar slipped with crude oil. With fresh U.S. stimulus remaining elusive for now, investors are monitoring clampdowns in Europe’s biggest cities as concern grows that measures to contain the virus’s spread could cause more damage to a fragile global recovery. A surprise increase in car sales in Europe along with strong corporate earnings were a ray of light after data Thursday showed an unexpected surge in U.S. jobless claims -- a troubling sign for a labor market whose recovery was already slowing. Europe Is Losing Fight to Stay Open on Record Virus Surge “We need to take into account the tremendous rally we’ve had over the past five months so some consolidation is certainly warranted,” Jim McDonald, chief investment strategist at Northern Trust, said on Bloomberg TV. “The new risk emerging on the horizon is the increasing cases of Covid that are sweeping across Europe and increasing across the U.S.” Meanwhile, the British pound reversed some of Thursday’s drop versus the euro. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set to decide on Friday whether to abandon trade talks with the European Union after the bloc’s leaders refused to give him the clear signal he wants in order to remain at the table. Friday brings the expiry of options contracts on U.S. equities, indexes and exchange-traded funds, lifting the chances for intraday volatility. Goldman Sachs says we’re on the cusp of a “big rotation” into value and cyclical stocks. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events coming up: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Adam Haigh