Travelers wearing protective masks wait to board a flight at San Francisco International Airport (SFO) in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Oct. 15. We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. People in Paris and London prepared for more restrictions on their personal freedoms and Chancellor Angela Merkel appealed to German citizens to stay home to stem the tide of new coronavirus infections. Londoners will be banned from mixing with other households indoors, while residents of Paris and eight other major French cities will be confined to their homes between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. for at least four weeks. Merkel in her weekly podcast appealed to German citizens to meet with fewer people whether inside or outside. How winter and Christmas work out will be decided in the coming days and weeks through the sum of individual actions, she said. Belgium closed bars and restaurants across the country. Global cases surpassed the 39-million mark and the U.S. reported the most daily infections in two months. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern swept to a commanding victory in New Zealand’s general election after her successful handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Germany reported a record 7,695 new coronavirus cases as Merkel appealed to citizens to help stem the viral surge. How winter and Christmas pan out will be decided in the coming days and weeks through the sum of individual actions, Merkel said. She stressed the importance of refraining from unnecessary journeys and celebrations. Russia added 14,922 new cases, taking total infections in the country to 1.38 million, according to government data. The death toll rose by 279 to 24,002. Poland registered a record 9,622 new cases and the death toll there climbed by 84 to 3,524, the Health Ministry said on Twitter. The country had 604 respirators in use, up from 346 a week earlier. The Swiss government will hold a meeting on Sunday to decide on further steps to combat the virus, according to Tages-Anzeiger. Measures could include mandatory mask-wearing in indoor public spaces, a ban on gatherings of more than 15 in public, and the recommendation that people resume working from home, according to the report. A government spokesman declined to confirm the meeting or comment on what measures might be introduced. In a separate newspaper report, Finance Minister Ueli Maurer said the government must not overreact and people “have to learn to live with the virus.” Western Australia state recorded two new cases of Covid-19, with crew members on separate ships testing positive. A crew member from the Al Messilah livestock carrier, which is docked at Fremantle, was brought ashore for medical treatment, the state health department said in a statement. An infected person on board the Key Integrity bulk carrier, at Geraldton Port, remains on the ship in isolation. The health department says it has previously managed four vessel outbreaks, with no risk to the community. Belgium’s 14-day running Covid-19 incidence rate is still rising and jumped to 621 per 100,000 population. That compared with 550 the day before. While 358 patients were in intensive care, 31 more than a day earlier, hospitalizations were slightly lower. Prime Minister Alexander de Croo had announced new stricter measures to control the pandemic on Friday evening, introducing a curfew, restricting close contacts further and closing restaurants and cafes for four weeks. The Czech Republic posted a third consecutive record of new Covid-19 cases. The nation of 10.7 million people registered 11,105 new cases on Friday, bringing the total number of infections to 92,736. The army should start to build a field hospital in Prague this weekend to add extra 500 beds for patients who need to be hospitalized. The Czech Republic is the worst hit country in Europe based on the two-week cumulative number of new infections and deaths, adjusted for population, according to the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control. India added 62,212 new cases, taking the total infections in the country to 7.43 million, according to government data. India has identified 300 million patients to receive an initial dose of vaccine, the Times of India newspaper reported on Saturday. According to the draft of the vaccine implementation plan, priority will be given to high-risk populations, including healthcare workers, police, sanitation workers, elderly people, and those with co-morbidities, the report said, citing sources it did not identify. Singapore’s active coronavirus cases fell to the lowest level in seven months as the government reins in local transmissions. There were 89 active cases in the city-state, falling below 100 for the first time since March 12, the Ministry of Health said Friday. The fledgling travel bubble between Australia and New Zealand hit an early snag after 17 passengers who flew into Sydney on Friday broke the rules and caught a connecting flight to Melbourne. In an effort to boost tourism, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s government is encouraging visitors from New Zealand, which has crushed community transmission of Covid-19, and says they can enter the country without having to undergo hotel quarantine for 14 days. Mexico reported 6,751 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 841,661, according to data released by the Health Ministry Friday night. Deaths rose by 419 to 85,704. Argentina reported 16,546 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 965,609, according to the government’s evening report. There were 381 deaths reported in the past 24 hours for a total of 25,723. Texas virus cases climbed by more than 5,600 in the past 24 hours, the biggest increase since Aug. 25, according to state health department data. The surge brought the cumulative total 815,678. Meanwhile, statewide hospitalizations dropped for the first time in five days even as available intensive-care beds dwindled in the hot spots of El Paso, Lubbock and Amarillo, state figures showed. Victoria, the state at the center of Australia’s outbreak, recorded just one new case overnight and no deaths, raising pressure on authorities to ease lockdown restrictions. The 5 million residents of the state capital, Melbourne, remain under stay-at-home orders until the rolling 14-day average drops below 5 new cases and there are fewer than five cases with an unknown source. Critics, including the federal health minister, say the target is too onerous, and that the prolonged lockdown is risking people’s mental health and weighing on the national economy. People get tested for Covid-19 at a drive through testing clinic in Shepparton, Australia on Oct. 15. Photographer: Darrian Traynor/Getty Images State Premier Daniel Andrews is due to address the media on Sunday and is being urged to ease restrictions. A company that performed tests for dozens of Massachusetts nursing homes is facing federal sanctions, including the possible loss of its license, for lab practices that resulted in “immediate jeopardy to patient health and safety.” Last month, Bloomberg News reported that the company, Orig3n Inc., a consumer DNA-testing company that pivoted to Covid-19 testing amid the pandemic, was responsible for hundreds of false positive results at nursing homes across the state. People dine in plastic tents for social distancing at a restaurant in Manhattan on Oct. 15. Photographer: Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images Total Covid-19 cases in the U.S. topped 8 million, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. There were 63,330 cases reported on Thursday, the most in more than two months. Cases nationwide have been rising since mid-September, after a summertime peak as the virus spread through the Sun Belt. The trailing seven-day average of cases rose by almost 9% this week compared to the previous week, illustrating the upward curve faced by the U.S. less than three weeks before the general election. Cases are climbing as temperatures begin to dip across the U.S., students return to classrooms and more people stay indoors where the virus spreads easily. CVS Health Corp. and Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc. will give free Covid-19 vaccines to residents and employees of long-term care facilities, the Trump administration announced Friday. Residents and employees of long-term care facilities are slated to be among the first vaccinated because the coronavirus is especially dangerous in these settings. No vaccines are currently available. — With assistance by Anand Krishnamoorthy