Europe is tightening restrictions to regain control of resurgent coronavirus infections, with Paris closing bars and new curbs likely on the way in Italy and Ireland. The continent is struggling to control the latest outbreak as opposition to limits on movement mounts and leaders resist the stringent lockdowns that hammered economies in the second quarter. Instead, the approach focuses on a shifting array of measures, which risks being similarly disruptive and less effective. “Authorities have an extremely difficult job at the moment,” Martin Hirsch, head of Paris hospitals, said on France Info. “If we go too far we are accused of killing freedom or the economy, and if we don’t go far enough, it’s homicide.” Paris and its inner suburbs will close bars starting Tuesday, but restaurants will be allowed to remain open after agreeing to tougher rules including limiting capacity, taking down contact details and contacting customers in case of an infection. Under those conditions, restaurants in Marseille will be permitted to reopen after a week of closure. Dance halls, fairs, sports facilities and swimming pools will close. Student evenings and family events in public establishments will be banned. The measures will initially apply for two weeks. “The indicators are very worrying, and the situation has to be brought under control again immediately,” Valerie Pecresse, president of the Ile-de-France region that includes the capital, said on France Info radio on Monday. “It’s hard to come out of this carefree summer back into the pandemic crisis.” Customers eat and drink at the Galleries Lafayette roof bar in view of the Eiffel Tower. Photographer: Nathan Laine/Bloomberg Labor Minister Elisabeth Borne called for a “collective effort” from companies and employees to limit social interactions in the workplace and public transport. The epidemic situation in Paris and its inner suburbs is “of great concern,” and working at a distance must be expanded, the labor ministry said in a statement. France’s virus cases increased the most in Europe over the past two months and monthly virus-related deaths tripled in September. The country reported a record number of laboratory-confirmed new cases on Saturday. Covid-19 cases per 100,000 people over the past 14 days Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel chaired a special cabinet meeting on the pandemic response in Berlin, where images of people gathering without adhering to distancing rules circulated over the weekend. “I can’t understand seeing pictures of parties like they’ve again taken place this weekend,” Health Minister Jens Spahn said at a press briefing in the German capital. “I don’t agree that we constantly need to talk about new rules and measures. I’d already be very happy if we applied the rules that already exist.” Authorities are bracing for a longer fight against the virus. Germany’s Finance Minister Olaf Scholz warned that restrictions will affect daily life into next year, even if more effective therapies and a vaccine are made available. Hungary announced what it called an unprecedented increase in doctors’ wages. Prime Minister Viktor Orban predicted that the “seven-eight months ahead will require extraordinary efforts” from medical professionals, according to a Facebook video. Ireland’s government is set to reject a recommendation from health officials, prompted by a surge in cases, that the nation move to the highest grade of lockdown, level 5, local media reported. The surprise proposal drew widespread opposition amid concerns that severe new curbs would derail an economic recovery. Instead, the ruling coalition will move the country one notch to Level 3, which is in already in place in Dublin. While that means indoor dining at bars and restaurants will be stopped and alcohol-only pubs will close, householdvisits can still take place, non-essential stores can keep their doors open and schools will remain open. As part of the economic fallout, Cineworld Group Plc lost more than half its value after the the world’s second-biggest cinema chain said it will temporarily suspend operations at all its American and British movie theaters now that crucial income from winter blockbusters has been pushed into 2021. Operations will resume when “key markets have more concrete guidance on their reopening status and, in turn, studios are able to bring their pipeline of major releases back to the big screen,” the company said. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte warned that people may have to give up some liberties to combat the renewed spread of the coronavirus, as his government prepares to require masks in all outdoor areas and impose limits on gatherings, Corriere della Sera reported. Italy reported 2,257 new cases on Monday, as figures continue to be higher than any time since late spring, though the flare-up has been more contained than in most neighboring countries. In a reminder of the risks, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is self-isolating after being exposed to someone who tested positive. Romanian Prime Minister Ludovic Orban canceled all public events on Monday after he came into contact with a person who was confirmed to have Covid-19. For his part, Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz canceled all meetings on Monday after a close aide tested positive for the virus. — With assistance by Jerrold Colten, Irina Vilcu, Veronika Gulyas, Mariajose Vera, and William Horobin