President Donald Trump said he will skip next week’s debate with Democratic nominee Joe Biden if it’s not in-person, saying he’ll instead hold live rallies as polls show him headed for a possible defeat. Trump’s comments Thursday came moments after the Commission on Presidential Debates said that the Oct. 15 town hall-style forum in Miami -- the second of three presidential debates -- would be conducted virtually as a precaution against the spread of the coronavirus. Trump said the panel was trying “to protect Biden” by canceling the in-person debate. “No I’m not going to waste my time on a virtual debate,” Trump said in a telephone interview with Fox Business Thursday morning. “That’s not what debating’s about.” Trump and several of his aides are recovering from Covid-19, after regularly holding events and meetings without masks or social distancing. The first presidential debate, marked by Trump constantly interrupting and cross-talking over Biden, cost Trump voter support in polls afterward, particularly among female voters. Biden, speaking to reporters Thursday morning, said he’d follow the commission’s recommendations but that the fate of the debate remains unclear. “We don’t know what the president’s going to do. He changes his mind every second,” Biden said. “If he goes off and has a rally, I’ll — I don’t know what I’ll do.” Both campaigns said the commission acted without consulting them. Trump’s withdrawal comes as polls continue to show Biden with a lead nationally and in the key states he needs for an Electoral College victory. Trump said Thursday that he doesn’t believe the polls, citing boat and truck parades by his supporters as signs of enthusiasm. White House Economic Adviser Larry Kudlow, speaking to Fox News, said he thinks the commission might reconsider its decision. “I think you’re going to see a renegotiation of that,” he said, adding that he hopes Trump will do the debate. “I do. And I want him on message and I want him to show the differences between the two teams as Mike Pence did brilliantly yesterday.” Trump has repeatedly sown doubt in the election process, and Vice President Mike Pence declined to say Wednesday, during his only debate with Kamala Harris, what he personally would do if Trump doesn’t accept the results of the election. The news of the presidential debate change overshadowed the vice presidential face-off. The presidential debate decision was made “in order to protect the health and safety of all involved,” the commission said in a statement. “The second presidential debate will take the form of a town meeting, in which the candidates would participate from separate remote locations.” Moderator Steve Scully, C-SPAN’s political editor, will be live from the planned location of the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts of Miami-Dade County, and the commission said the White House press pool will “provide coverage.” “Vice President Biden looks forward to speaking directly to the American people and comparing his plan for bringing the country together and building back better with Donald Trump’s failed leadership on the coronavirus that has thrown the strong economy he inherited into the worst downturn since the Great Depression,” Biden deputy campaign manager Kate Bedingfield said in a statement. Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien assailed the commission’s decision, saying that it was rushing to Biden’s “defense by unilaterally canceling an in-person debate.” “President Trump will have posted multiple negative tests prior to the debate, so there is no need for this unilateral declaration,” Stepien said in a statement. “The safety of all involved can easily be achieved without canceling a chance for voters to see both candidates go head to head. We’ll pass on this sad excuse to bail out Joe Biden and do a rally instead.” Trump told Fox Business that the commission was doing it to “protect Biden,” while another campaign adviser, Pam Bondi, said in a separate Fox interview that the campaign wants an in-person debate in part to confirm that Biden wasn’t using a listening device or other aid. Trump disclosed on Oct. 2 that he tested positive for Covid, almost two weeks before the next scheduled debate. He was hospitalized Friday before returning to the White House on Monday. Trump has said he’s feeling better. His doctor has refused to release key details since Monday, such as Trump’s specific vital signs, when he last tested negative, when he actually fell ill, and whether he’s still receiving a steroid, dexamethasone. Trump indicated in the interview Thursday that he was still on steroid medication but didn’t say how long he’d continue to take it. Trump said he wants to resume doing rallies, and that he wouldn’t do so if he’s contagious but that he doesn’t believe he’s contagious anymore. The White House hasn’t said, and said it required staff who visited Trump in the Oval Office on Wednesday to wear full protective equipment. It has not provided evidence that they did. The virus has circulated widely throughout the White House. Aside from Trump and the first lady, aides Hope Hicks, Nick Luna, Stephen Miller and Kayleigh McEnany have all tested positive, as well as Stepien, former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, who helped with debate prep, and several other aides. Trump is pushing to return to normal, despite still being in the active phase of the virus. The campaigns had haggled over rule changes after the first debate, which was marked by a series of interruptions from Trump in particular. The campaign has said that Trump “intends to be ready to debate” by Oct. 15, and had opposed rule changes, such as a mute button that would allow moderators to cut off the microphone of a candidate. The idea of having the candidates debate each other from separate locations is not new. In the third debate of the famous 1960 debates between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon, the candidates sparred remotely with Kennedy in New York City and Nixon in Los Angeles. — With assistance by Jennifer Epstein