Eli Lilly & Co. put its government-sponsored antibody test on hold due to potential safety concerns, hours after Johnson & Johnson paused its Covid-19 vaccine trial because of a participant’s unexplained illness. Countries across Europe widened curbs to try to regain a grip on the pandemic. Infections rose at the fastest pace since April in Germany, the Dutch prime minster ordered a partial lockdown and France reported a surge in patients needing intensive care. New cases in Italy jumped to the highest since March. A new 10-minute Covid-19 test that doesn’t need added equipment to process has been cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. A study in the Lancet showed reinfection can occur swiftly, and the second bout can be more severe. Soccer superstar Cristiano Ronaldo tested positive and is in isolation. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Eli Lilly & Co. said enrollment of participants in a clinical trial of its antibody treatment for Covid-19 has been paused due to a potential safety concern. The independent data safety monitoring board recommended pausing enrollment in the U.S. government-sponsored trial, a company spokeswoman said in an emailed statement. The company didn’t provide any information about what caused the data panel to recommend the pause. “Lilly is supportive of the decision by the independent DSMB to cautiously ensure the safety of the patients participating in this study,” said spokeswoman Kathryn Beiser. Shares of Eli Lilly declined as much as 3.3% in afternoon trading on Tuesday in New York. France reported the number of Covid patients in intensive-care units increased by 94 to 1,642 on Tuesday, the biggest jump since April 6 and reaching the highest level since the final week of May. New confirmed cases rose by 12,993, climbing from a day earlier. The seven-day rolling average of new infections, which smooths out daily variations, rose for an 11th day to 17,387, the highest it’s been since the start of the outbreak. Coronavirus deaths in France increased by 117 to 32,942, the biggest increase in 11 days, partially on the inclusion of several days of nursing home data. Saying measures needed to stop the virus “will hurt,” Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte announced what he called a partial lockdown on Tuesday evening, with sales of alcohol to be banned after 8 p.m. and bars, restaurants and coffee shops to be closed altogether. Citizens are being urged to avoid public transportation where possible. “The facts don’t lie, we have to be stricter for ourselves, and stricter on our own behavior,” Rutte said at a televised news conference. Health Minister Hugo de Jonge warned that a total lockdown could be the next step if the new measures don’t work. Facebook Inc. will reject ads that discourage people from getting vaccines, citing a new policy meant to prevent “harm” to public health efforts. Facebook already forbids ads that promote vaccine hoaxes or misinformation about vaccines. The company will also put educational material about the flu shot in users’ feeds. Italy’s coronavirus cases jumped again on Tuesday to 5,901, the most since March 28, compared with 4,619 the previous day. There were 112,544 tests carried out, and 41 deaths related to Covid-19 were reported, bringing the total to 36,246. Patients in intensive care units rose by 62 to to 514. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte imposed a series of new curbs on nightlife, social events and amateur sports as the pandemic intensifies throughout the country, albeit at a slower pace than in other major European nations. New York City, which is trying to stamp out stubborn waves of Covid-19 in Queens and Brooklyn neighborhoods, issued $150,000 in fines and 100 summonses over the weekend, Mayor Bill de Blasio said Tuesday. The city’s crackdown has resulted in widespread anger and protests in Orthodox Jewish communities. Opponents have said they are being singled out and not consulted. Virus hospitalizations in El Paso, Texas, surged 13% overnight to an all-time high of 353, according to city data. The tally surpassed the old record of 317 set in late July. El Paso has been detecting as many new cases as Houston, which has almost five times the border town’s population. The hospitalization surge comes a day after Texas Governor Greg Abbott began deploying teams of nurses and respiratory specialists to El Paso. The Portuguese soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo has been dismissed from national squad work after testing positive for Covid-19. The player is currently in isolation and showing no symptoms, Portugal’s soccer federation says in a statement Tuesday afternoon. Portugal is due to play against Sweden on Oct. 15 in Lisbon, as part of the Nations League tournament. The federation said Ronaldo, 35, is “doing well, without symptoms, and in isolation.” Cristiano Ronaldo Photographer: Octavio Passos/Getty Images Juventus Football Club SpA, where Ronaldo plays, saw shares fall as much as 6.9% in Milan trading after the news. Canadian consumer confidence recorded its largest one-week decline in five months as the nation gets hit by a second wave of Covid-19 cases. The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index, a composite measure of financial health and economic expectations derived from telephone polling, dropped more than half a point to 52.4 for the week ended Oct. 9. That’s the biggest weekly decline since April, bringing the gauge to the lowest since mid-August. Ireland’s government unleashed a record package of budget measures to counter the dual threats of Brexit and the pandemic, as new restrictions threaten to derail a nascent economic recovery. Speaking to lawmakers in Dublin on Tuesday, Finance Minister Paschal Donohoe said the entire 2021 budget package is worth close to 18 billion euros ($21.2 billion), with most being earmarked for a fund to deal with the virus and Brexit, more health spending and other measures. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, part of the National Institutes of Health, launched a study designed to determine whether certain approved therapies or drugs in late-stage clinical development show promise against Covid-19 and merit advancement into larger clinical trials. The ACTIV-5 Big Effect Trial will enroll adult volunteers hospitalized with Covid-19 at as many as 40 U.S sites. The Netherlands added almost 44,000 new Covid-19 patients last week, a new record, as the country awaits stricter government measures. A total of 43,903 cases were confirmed in the week ending Oct. 13, up from 27,485, according to health agency RIVM. Admissions to intensive care units jumped to 192 from 121. In the past 24 hours, a total of 7,393 new cases were reported, a new daily record, news agency ANP reported. Prime Minister Mark Rutte is expected to announce additional measures Tuesday evening. The drugmaker was forced to pause its late-stage study of a coronavirus vaccine, overshadowing an improved financial outlook for the year. The temporary halt -- the second time that a front-runner developer has suspended a trial -- could contribute to concern about the rapid pace of coronavirus vaccine research. J&J said adverse events are an expected part of drug studies and that it is investigating. Chief Financial Officer Joseph Wolk said J&J was notified about the participant at one of its trial sites becoming ill 36 hours ago, and immediately approached the independent Data Safety Monitoring Board to conduct an analysis. It also temporarily paused dosing other participants. Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate. Wolk said the company didn’t know whether the trial participant had been given the vaccine or was given a placebo. “We need to let the independent board do their research,” he said in an interview. One of China’s leading vaccine developers is working on a plan to inoculate students going overseas with Covid-19 shots that are yet to get regulatory approval, according to people familiar with the matter, as the country pushes scientific boundaries in the race for a viable immunization. China National Biotec Group Co., or CNBG, a subsidiary of state-owned Sinopharm Group Co., is in talks with the Chinese government about giving students headed abroad to study its experimental vaccines, said the people, who asked not to be identified as they’re not authorized to speak publicly. Various government agencies are still working on the plan and no final decision has been made, the people said. Polish Premier Mateusz Morawiecki has gone into quarantine after coming into contact on Oct. 9 with a person who was confirmed this morning to have the virus, his office said in a statement. Morawiecki doesn’t have Covid-19 symptoms. A spokesman declined to comment about the prime minister’s participation in the EU summit later this week. Iran recorded 254 fatalities from coronavirus in the past 24 hours after reporting its deadliest day of the pandemic with 272 deaths the previous day. The number of cases rose by 4,108, down from 4,206 Monday. The country now has 29,070 deaths. European Union aid rules were loosened again to allow governments to cover as much as 3 million euros ($3.5 million) of companies’ fixed costs as the European economy suffers the steepest recession in living memory. — With assistance by Mark Schoifet, Flavia Rotondi, Fred Pals, Diederik Baazil, and Rudy Ruitenberg