We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Australia is considering reopening state borders in time for Christmas, and the state of New South Wales reported no new locally transmitted Covid-19 cases for a second straight day. Sri Lanka closed at least two fishery harbors after infections spiked. U.S. daily cases exceeded 70,000 for the first time since late July, prompting Anthony Fauci, the top U.S. infectious disease expert, to call this upward curve “a precarious place.” The latest data showed the Covid-19 pandemic is nearing its previous high-water mark this summer as a new surge that started in the upper Midwest drifts east to more populous areas. Hard-hit Mexico raised its coronavirus alert in several states amid a rise in cases. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Covid-19 cases per 100,000 people over the past 14 days Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  Sri Lanka closed at least two fishery harbors and a number of stalls after a surge in hundreds of cases tied to the main fish market in the South Asian nation, the AP reported. Authorities also widened curfew in parts of Colombo, AP said. The fish market was temporarily closed on Wednesday after 49 traders tested positive for Covid-19, AP said, and the number of cases had spiked to 609 by Saturday. The Covid-19 pandemic will hamper emerging nations’ ability to deal with their debt burdens and raise funds in the future, former People’s Bank of China governor Zhou Xiaochuan told a forum in Shanghai. Should defaults occur, the financial health of creditors such as Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank will be undermined, Zhou said. Mexico raised its alert in several states -- including the border state of Chihuahua -- amid a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. The northern states of Durango, Coahuila and Nuevo Leon are also at risk of moving to the highest risk level, Health Ministry official Ricardo Cortes Alcala said. The Health Ministry reported 418 new deaths Friday night, bringing the toll to 88,312. South Korea recorded 77 news cases, dropping almost half from the previous day’s tally of 155. The Asian nation now has 25,775 total infections, as it’s worked to contain a surge following early success in stopping the spread of Covid-19. The state of New South Wales -- home to Sydney -- recorded no new locally transmitted virus cases for a second day. Five cases from overseas travelers in hotel quarantine were reported in in the 24 hours through 8 p.m. Friday, the regional health department said, bringing its overall tally to 4,186. The state-run Philippine Health Insurance Corp. said it will pay 930 million pesos ($19 million) it owes the Red Cross after the agency stopped virus tests -- leaving thousands of quarantined people waiting to be screened. The agency accounts for a quarter of the Southeast Asian nation’s testing and said last week it had stopped Covid-19 tests charged to PhilHealth. The tests are mostly administered to medical personnel and workers returning from overseas. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told CNN he’s worried the U.S. is headed for a massive surge in cases if smart public health measures aren’t ratcheted up. He also said he’s hopeful at least two vaccines will emerge by the end of November or early December that are “safe and effective.” Earlier in the day, the top U.S. infectious disease expert told MSNBC that Friday’s data puts the U.S. in a “a precarious place” as the cases would lead to an increase in hospitalizations and eventually deaths as the colder weather keeps people indoors. “We don’t want to shut down the country,” he said. “We’re talking about doubling down on some of the fundamental public health measures,” pointing to universal mask-wearing, social-distancing and avoiding crowds, especially indoors. It’s been “several months” since President Donald Trump met with the White House coronavirus task force, said Fauci, who’s faced repeated criticism from the U.S. leader. Fauci said the task force now meets about once a week, versus its daily gatherings early in the pandemic. Australia is considering reopening state borders in time for Christmas and is also weighing plans to create alternative options to hotel quarantine so that more of its citizens can return from abroad. All states and territories except for Western Australia agreed to a framework that would end regional border closures before Dec. 25, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said. Victoria state -- the country’s worst hit -- reported seven new coronavirus cases and no deaths. AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson plan to resume Covid-19 vaccine clinical trials that had been halted by U.S. regulators, putting research into two of the leading candidates for a coronavirus inoculation back on track. Johnson & Johnson said Friday it’s preparing to resume recruitment in a late-stage trial of its vaccine after consultation with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. An independent data safety monitoring board recommended the trial continue. The study was paused earlier this month after a patient became sick, but the company said no clear cause of the illness had been identified. Illinois, among the Midwestern states where Covid-19 is rebounding, has put half its 102 counties at a warning level. That is up from 34 a week ago. The warning level means that at least two risk indicators for the virus have increased. Statewide, cases hit a record 4,942 on Thursday and other metrics including hospitalizations also are rising. Its northern neighbor Wisconsin recorded its second-highest number of infections. New York hospitalizations for Covid-19 topped 1,000 for the first time since June, as the state battles clusters of rising cases. Nearly half of all new daily hospital admissions in the state have been from Brooklyn, Queens, Rockland, Orange and counties along the Pennsylvania border that New York have identified as “micro-cluster focus zone areas.” The positive testing rate in the hot spots was 2.31% on Oct. 22, compared with 0.98% outside those areas, according to data from the governor’s office. Argentina extended its virus prevention measures for 14 days, President Alberto Fernandez said. The country reported 15,718 new cases, bringing the total to 1,069,368. California reported 6,141 new cases Friday, the biggest single-day jump in two months, according state health department data. The rate of positive tests climbed to 2.8% from 2.6%. The most-populous U.S. state has seen its outbreak ease after a summer surge where cases topped more than 10,000 a day. France reported a record 42,032 new cases, the health agency said, taking the total to 1.041 million. Deaths increased by 298 to 34,508, the most since May, while hospitalizations jumped by almost 1,000 patients, rising above 15,000 for the first time in about five months. President Emmanuel Macron, speaking a day after the government announced an extension of a nightly curfew to a vast part of the country, said authorities will have a clearer view of its impact in the middle of next week, and will have to keep adjusting measures in coming weeks. Denmark will limit public gatherings to 10 people -- from 50 -- and expand the mandatory use of face masks after registering its highest ever daily tally of coronavirus cases. The new measures, some of which will take effect from Monday, are the toughest since Denmark enforced one of Europe’s swiftest lockdowns back in March. A spike in new cases has spread across the Nordic region, where strategies to fight the pandemic have varied from country to country. Belgium’s French-speaking southern region of Wallonia widened the existing national curfew that begins at midnight, ordering residents to stay inside from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. for one month, after Brussels and the five Walloon provinces have 14-day incidence rates that are twice as high as those of the Flemish provinces in the north of the country. Luxembourg also introduced a curfew to cope with a record rise in infections. People are expected to stay at home between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. for one month as soon as lawmakers approve the new restrictions. “This was not an easy decision,” Prime Minister Xavier Bettel said. In Switzerland, Geneva plans to limit public and private gatherings to five people to slow the spread of the virus. The new measures come into effect at midnight Sunday and will be in place until Nov. 30. — With assistance by Karen Leigh