A plan of the city of Philadelphia, circa 1750. The city’s grid plan became a model throughout new towns and developments in North America — until the meandering streets of suburbia arrived in the 20th century. Hulton Archive via Getty Images Hulton Archive via Getty Images America has long been a nation of grids. In 1682, surveyor Thomas Holme began to assemble one of the first major street plans in North America for the new city of Philadelphia, producing a grid of wide streets, consistent blocks and regular parks. That formula rapidly spread across the colonies. In 1811, New York City would adopt its now-famous grid plan across Manhattan island. As therailroads pushed westward, a grid that centered around the train station became the street plan of choice. And no wonder: With high levels of connectivity and easy legibility, street grids make cities easier to navigate and boast many benefits to mobility. The raw efficiency of such plans lends a high degree of certainty to urban growth. As urban planner Alain Bertaud argues, grids allowed planners to define the public realm in advance of growth. This meant that not only streets, but also parks, transit, school sites and utilities could have a dedicated home before new development arrived, avoiding a scramble to widen streets or buy up public land later. But in the 20th century, American planners lost touch with this tradition. In the post-war period especially, a new street design paradigm of winding roads and blossoming cul-de-sacs — aggressively promoted by the Federal Housing Administration and later enshrined in local subdivision ordinances — came to rule the day. Where cities once mapped out comprehensive street networks, the concept of a “street hierarchy” now prevails, with planners mapping out wide arterials and collector roads and leaving the rest to the ad hoc proposals of subdivision developers. The result is the winding web of curvilinear streets and cul-de-sacs that now define suburbia, in the U.S. and beyond. The spread of this style of anti-urban planning is a global phenomenon: According  to one recent study, since 1975, the disconnectivity of street networks, both in terms of new cul-de-sacs and lengthening distances between intersections, has increased dramatically — not only within American suburbia but across much of the developing world. It’s a space- and resource-hungry pattern that has long  attracted criticism. But the Great American street grid may be staging a comeback, and from an unlikely place — the wide-open exurbs around Texas boomtowns. As Robert Steuteville noted in Public Square, a growing number of Texas towns are rediscovering the wisdom of gridded street layouts. Back in 2017, Laredo — America’s largest trade port and consistently one of the fastest-growing cities in the country — adopted Plan Viva Laredo. The comprehensive plan envisions a dramatic expansion of Laredo’s historic grid as the city expands outward, creating a framework for walkable, mixed-use neighborhoods rather than the siloed sprawl which has characterized much of Texas’ recent growth. As the pandemic leaves suburbanites isolated in communities defined by a lack of public spaces, grids could be just what the doctor ordered. And in late 2019, the Austin exurb of Bastrop adopted the Bastrop Building Block (B3) Code, an integrated development plan addressing everything from building design to parks planning. Faced with a booming population — Bastrop has grown by nearly a third since 2010 — and a regularly flooding Colorado River, the growth pressures facing the small Texas town were real. The appeal of a street grid, which ended up being central to the plan, was that it could at once address sustainability concerns and growth needs in the most efficient street pattern possible. The Bastrop code is unique in other ways. Where most American planners now spend the bulk of their time regulating private development, B3 is strikingly agnostic about what happens between the streets. The more dubious elements of your average zoning code — like use rules, minimum lot sizes and parking requirements — are out, and form-based regulations that focus on the shape of buildings in relation to the street are in. From top to bottom, the focus of Bastrop’s approach — at once a throwback to tradition and bold new direction — is on planning out a great public realm. The benefits of grids in places like Bastrop could go beyond mere infrastructure planning. As the coronavirus pandemic leaves many suburbanites isolated in communities defined by land-use segregation and a lack of public spaces, grids might be just what the doctor ordered: With greater connectivity and walkability come opportunities for interspersed plazas, more housing variety, and even the occasional corner grocery. In this sense, grids might help to strike the right balance between urban and suburban, injecting a little civic life back into the American sprawl. Could the small experiments being run in Texas be the start of a turning tide? Relative to the momentous changes underway with other planning policies — from abolishing single-family zoning to embracing pedestrianization — the idea of scrapping cul-de-sacs and re-embracing the grid doesn’t seem radical at all. It’s certainly not a question that’s going to go away: From Boise to Atlanta, communities in regions like the Sun Belt and Mountain West are expected to keep expanding outward, especially if the prophesized coronavirus “urban exodus” materializes. Will cities have a plan? Nolan Gray is a professional city planner and a regular contributor to Market Urbanism.