Amber Sanchez, pictured, and her roommate Riley Porter ditched their Austin apartment, went on a road trip and were staying in Portland, Oregon. They plan to try out California next, or maybe even Hawaii. You might think that a global pandemic isn’t a great time for a road trip. For some young Americans, it’s the perfect time. Over the summer, Bret Collazzi and his fiancee Di Gao decided to give up the lease on their New York apartment, buy a car and spend the foreseeable future traveling throughout the country while working remotely. They first spent a few weeks in the Catskills, and the plan for the fall is to drive from New York to Seattle, then head to cities in California, Texas and back through Louisiana. “We’ve always talked about what it’d be like to live in other places, but we’ve never had the courage to just pick up and move,” said Collazzi, 36, an economic development consultant. “It never felt like the right time to do it. What better time to go test out what it’s like to be in all these cities we’ve always talked about?” Without kids, mortgages or offices to tie them down, some Americans are city hopping in search of new scenery and open space. Driving that trend are a few large employers that have made clear that they don’t expect workers to return well into 2021. Even though some Wall Street banks are already putting pressure on employees to come back to the office, big tech companies including Google parent Alphabet Inc., Facebook Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. are extending work from home policies — and some are even  making the arrangement permanent. People like Collazzi who can work remotely are finding that the restrictions placed on international travel have spurred them to go domestic sightseeing. More than 34% of people substituted some or all of their typical in-person work for remote from Sept. 2-14, according to the Census Bureau’s Household Pulse Survey. People with lower-paying jobs typically didn’t have the same flexibility as higher earners: More than 61% of households earning more than $100,000 a year said they were able to substitute telecommuting for some in-person work, compared with 25% of households making less than $100,000. Although the tourism business came to a virtual standstill in March, Americans started itching to stretch their legs a bit by the summer. There’s evidence that they are taking longer trips, said Omer Kucukdere, the chief executive officer of Nestpick, which specializes in mid- to long-term furnished apartment rentals. Previously, Kucukdere’s core customers would include expats or students settling in, or even corporate travelers, such as consultants who moved to a city for a few months to embed with a company. “Nowadays it’s completely different,” he said. “It’s just professional people working remotely, working from home.” From a financial standpoint, young workers coming from high-rent cities like New York and San Francisco say they’re spending about the same amount as they would at home — or they are making some sacrifices. Roommates Riley Porter and Amber Sanchez are spending about the same amount of money to temporarily rent a one-bedroom apartment in Portland, Oregon, as they did on their two-bedroom place in Austin, Texas. The new place doesn’t have a stove, but it does have a washer and dryer, which they didn’t have at their old place. Neither of them have friends or family in Portland. It’s just a city Porter had always considered a cool spot. “It was overwhelming that we had so many things that were uncertain, but then we embraced that uncertainty,” said Porter, 25, a recreational therapist and a part-time UX/UI design student at The University of Texas at Austin. “That made us more comfortable with doing whatever we wanted.” When the pandemic hit and they realized they weren’t tethered to Austin, Porter and Sanchez decided not to renew their lease. At the end of July, they sold their furniture on Facebook and took off on a two-week road trip. The journey wasn’t all smooth sailing. The pair initially drove separately to avoid leaving a car in Austin, but five hours into the trip, in the middle of rural Texas, Porter’s car broke down. They stayed overnight at a Hampton Inn and shipped the car to her parents’ home in California. After that, Sanchez and Porter continued on through Denver, Boise, Idaho, and Bend, Oregon. Along the way, they stayed at Airbnbs and a motel, before settling down — so to speak — in Portland. The plan has been to return to their hometown of San Diego for a bit, then keep going somewhere else. They’ve even considered a trip to Hawaii. The public health implications of people migrating from city to city may be more manageable than they would seem at first glance, said Joshua Barocas, an infectious diseases physician at Boston Medical Center. Travelers will be relatively safe as long as they avoid bars and restaurants that don’t have outdoor dining, wear masks in public — regardless of local rules — and quarantine if they’re feeling ill or think they might’ve had contact with someone who was sick. “It’s actually quite creative that a lot of young professionals who have the means are able to do this and are taking advantage of the opportunity,” Barocas said. “It’s a very interesting way to do work these days.” Playing it safe also means making some necessary sacrifices. In normal times, these kinds of trips might be an opportunity to meet up with old college friends or far-flung relatives. Those kinds of visits are tricky, and potentially off limits. But the trips were planned with the pandemic in mind. That means visiting national parks, lots of hiking and visiting state monuments in the open air. Giving up a stable place to live means that some planning is required for re-entry when employers require people to come back to the office, or when the wanderlust wears off. Ian Lu, 25, a product operations analyst at Instacart Inc., is spending the three months between September and November road-tripping between Massachusetts, Maine and Connecticut with a friend. In January, he’ll rent a place in Lake Tahoe,  a new hotspot for tech workers escaping San Francisco. It’s only about three hours away from San Francisco, so Lu can be closer to work and look for apartments when the time comes to go back to the office. The company has said they will allow employees to work from home until July 2021. “We want to beat the gold rush back to the city to try to find good rent,” Lu said.