Berlin installed pop-up bicycle lanes to aid social distancing during the pandemic. Not everyone wants them to stay. The red and white poles dividing Berlin's motorists from cyclists have become a flashpoint in the city's efforts to reshape its transport system. The city Senate Department for Environment, Transport and Climate began setting up the markers along Berlin’s roads during the coronavirus pandemic as part of a wide range of measures to establish more eco-friendly and accessible transportation in the city — a pet project of the local coalition government since its election into office in 2017. But not everyone is happy. Last month, an administrative court ordered the removal of eight of the new bike lanes, after a local politician launched a legal case against them. Berlin's transport department appealed, and the city’s administrative appeals court ruled the pop-up bike lanes can remain while the case is pending. Like many cities, Berlin is accelerating a redesign of its urban spaces as residents take to cycling and walking to avoid confined buses and subways. Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo has also introduced a new network of corona lanes and touted the “15-minute city” idea, aiming to locate essential services within short walking and cycling distance of homes, as a tool for post-lockdown recovery. Meanwhile in London, an expansion of the “low traffic neighborhood” is intended to get more residents on bikes. New plans being implemented in Berlin go just as far, or further, in rethinking how the city transit network should work. The efforts to create more permanent bike lanes — and the resistance to them — represent an intensification of an ongoing push to transform Berlin from a car-dependent city. This policy has been a key focus of the ‘Red-Red-Green’ coalition in power since 2017. The group, comprising the Social Democratic, Green and Left parties, has proposed measures such as car-free zones, more disability-accessible public transport and a plan to invest more than 28 billion euros ($33 billion) in subways, electric buses and trams by 2035. And while the pandemic has led to the creation of pedestrian zones on some major thoroughfares, including a ban on cars for a stretch of the shop-lined Friedrichstrasse, it’s unclear how much will become permanent. Eight of Berlin’s 14 temporary bike lanes were found to be illegal by an administrative court in early September, following a case filed by a politician from the extreme right AfD. The court’s reasoning for siding with the plaintiff  was that the senate department didn’t show that the areas were dangerous enough for cyclists to justify a pop-up lane. When the higher court ruled in favor of provisionally keeping the cycle lanes, in early October, they said the transport department’s appeal of the decision took account of traffic and accident statistics. Currently, public opinion seems to be narrowly in support of the lanes staying, with 52% of respondents to a recent poll by Berlin’s public broadcaster in favor of keeping the pop-up lanes permanently, versus 43% against. Yet the Berlin government’s ultimate goal seems to be an even bigger overhaul of the city’s road space. "The use of cars is currently privileged," Jan Thomsen from the Transport department said, "when it comes to the use of space and public resources."For others, those plans don’t go far enough. “Within Berlin’s policymaking there remains a mix of old strategies — ‘the car-oriented city’ and new thinking,” said Peter Fuchs, from PowerShift, an environmentalist group. “If it were up to us, in the future of Berlin, private cars would only play a role in exceptional cases” such as for people with limited mobility, Fuchs added. Both the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) and the conservative Christian Democrats have expressed concern over the ad-hoc manner in which the bike lanes were set up. “This benefits no one because in the end, it is not only legally uncertain but also a concrete risk to cyclists,” FDP Berlin faction chair Sebastian Czaja said, going on to accuse the ruling parties of playing road users against one another. The battle over the bike lanes has particular resonance in a country where the automobile industry is a major economic sector, and even, to a degree, an emblem of German identity. “I don't envisage cars disappearing, and why should they?” Czaja asks. “The car is a part of our culture and, as is always the case with culture, it will continue to develop to fit with new needs." “To restructure mobility means redistributing privileges — and that garners resistance.” Over a century after Karl Benz invented the ‘Motorcar,’ Germany still leads the way in Europe’s auto industry. In 2019 alone, the country produced 4.6 million passenger vehicles. But this dominance comes with economic reliance on the success of the car market.The German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA) has strongly criticized the measures in Berlin, saying that blocking streets and implementing further speed limits are not the solution for cities burdened by heavy traffic. “We support innovation instead of prohibitions,” VDA spokesperson Nikolaus Doll said, calling for the interests of residents and commuters to be considered. Acknowledging that reducing car use in some areas could be beneficial, Doll suggests finding an "intelligent combination" of cars, public transport, carsharing and e-mobility to make a city's networks "much more efficient and less emission heavy." Senate Transport spokesperson Thomsen points out that incentivizing Berliners to convert from the personal automobile to public transport leaves room for those residents who rely on their cars to use the roads more freely. The effectiveness of policies to get personal automobiles off Berlin’s roads is slow but steady — but hasn’t yet led to a reduction in car numbers overall. Between 2013 and 2018, as the population of Berlin continued to grow, the amount of households with no car increased to 43.7% from 39.8%. Population growth still put more cars on the road, with an almost 7% rise in registered cars between 2018 and 2019. Berliners against car-centric roads are a vocal part of the city’s public life. “Critical Mass” cycle protests campaigning for better cycling infrastructure and safer conditions take place monthly in Berlin and attract hundreds of demonstrators who use their bikes to block roads. “To move freely is an essential experience for young people, who at the moment can’t do this,” says Ragnhild Soerensen, spokesperson of cycling campaign group Changing Cities. The debate around the pop-up lanes has thrown light on the challenges found in catering to the needs of different groups within the city. This tension, Soerensen thinks, is inevitable. “To restructure mobility means redistributing privileges — and that garners resistance,” the cycling activist said. And, for Berlin, Soerensen added, the new bike lanes are “only a small taste” of what is to come. — With assistance by Karin Matussek