 Wealthy investors are getting ready to overhaul their portfolios and revamp long-standing strategies if former U.S. Vice President Joe Biden and Democrats win big in November. While Biden has rejected the wealth tax pushed by Democratic primary rivals Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, his proposals could seriously disrupt the many ways that rich Americans minimize — or altogether avoid — taxes on their investment gains. “The fact is that we ought to start rewarding work, not just wealth,” Biden said in a February debate. He added that it’s “wrong” that billionaires pay lower rates on capital gains than employees do on their salaries. While investors are divided on what a Biden win would mean for the stock market, what really worries advisers to the wealthy is how Biden and a Democratic Congress could force them to scrap techniques used for decades to shrink tax bills. “These proposals will absolutely change how some money managers manage portfolios,” said Alison Hutchinson, managing director at Brown Brothers Harriman. There are two main areas of concern for wealthy investors: Stepped-Up Basis Rate on Capital Gains The prospect of much higher taxes — and fewer ways to avoid them — is prompting many rich Americans to radically reconsider their investment portfolios and think of strategies to trim their exposure: Offload Their Shares Wait Until Next Year For decades, the wealthy have tried not to sell investments that would trigger large capital gains tax bills. Hold on long enough, the theory went, and the stepped-up basis rule means those gains won’t ever be taxed. Rich Americans often borrowed against these holdings to raise cash — a transaction that isn’t taxable — and used sophisticated strategies and financial instruments to hedge the risk that this lack of diversification poses to their portfolios. Years of relying on such techniques could make Biden’s proposals much more expensive for many wealthy families. It could be particularly difficult for rich investors who have borrowed against their fortunes. “The problem” with this debt, Reitmeyer said, is “then you might not have the cash to pay the tax” when assets are sold. On the other hand, changing stepped-up basis rules might also simplify the financial lives of wealthy people whose fortunes are concentrated in just a few stocks — generally the businesses that made their families rich in the first place. Ending stepped-up basis “would open up a lot of opportunities to diversify portfolios,” BBH’s Hutchinson said. The change could also boost charitable giving, she said, assuming rules remained in place that allow the Americans to avoid capital gains taxes by giving appreciated assets to philanthropic organizations. Taxes aren’t the only reason that the wealthy avoid selling investments with big gains. Many well-off families have an emotional attachment to the companies that made them rich, said Tiedemann’s Smith. The threat of higher taxes is pushing some investors to re-consider these ties. “So many of our clients in that situation are asking us to analyze: ‘Should I be realizing gains before the end of the year?’” Smith said. “We’re talking about large-scale changes in portfolios.”