Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Europe’s leaders are stepping up efforts to contain an unrelenting surge in virus cases. The Spanish government declared a state of emergency for the Madrid region. German Chancellor Angela Merkel warned that Germany faces a crucial moment. Italy reported the most cases since March. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak announced new support for jobs, as tougher restrictions are readied to try to contain a pandemic the government warned is “getting out of control.” London Mayor Sadiq Khan said stricter lockdown restrictions for the capital are “highly likely” soon. President Donald Trump plans a live televised interview Friday, in which he’ll get a TV doctor’s assessment. Trump’s top economic adviser said the president has approved a revised stimulus offer, though Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said any deal is unlikely before the election. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. India is on track to pass U.S. infections Sources: Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg  President Donald Trump has approved a revised economic stimulus offer after walking away from talks earlier this week, according to his top economic adviser -- though it isn’t clear whether Congress will agree to it. “The president has approved a revised package. He would like to do a deal,” Larry Kudlow said Friday on Fox Business. “It will be relatively broad based but I can’t go through details.” Stocks jumped after Kudlow’s remarks, with the S&P 500 Index up 0.9% as of 11:56 a.m. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said in an interview with WNYC on Friday that the overall situation for Covid-19 cases in the city is “very good,” with a seven-day positivity rate of 1.66%. The daily positivity rate in New York City is just 1.16%. Parts of Queens and Brooklyn have faced tighter restrictions due to spikes in cases there, and de Blasio said the pause could last as little as two weeks if residents follow the restrictions. “My hope is this is a very brief measure to get us through this problem,” he said. He also said that there’s been little sign of Covid-19 spread in schools, pointing to testing done in 44 schools in the ZIP codes that have seen heightened cases of Covid-19. He said there were just three positive cases out of 2,155 tests completed. “That’s a staggeringly good result,” de Blasio said. Four staff members at the White House residence have tested positive for the coronavirus, linked to an outbreak at the building nearly three weeks ago, according to two people familiar with the matter. Those infected include three members of the housekeeping staff and an assistant to the chief usher, Timothy Harleth, according to the people. None of the infected staff came in direct contact with the president or his relatives, and wore masks in the residence, one of the people said. Trump regularly asked staffers who came near him to remove their masks, according to one of the people. He seemed impatient with people wearing masks around him, because he’d been tested, the person said. European Union diplomats meeting in Brussels on Friday reached a deal on common thresholds for imposing bloc-wide travel rules such as requiring quarantine or negative Covid-test results for visitors. The non-binding policy, on which ministers will formally sign off on Tuesday, could offer some relief to the continent’s battered airlines and travelers confused by the patchwork of country-by-country measures. Under the plan, restriction-free travel will be allowed between regions with fewer than 25 new coronavirus cases per 100,000 people for the previous 14 days, and with a reading of positive virus tests lower than 4%. Italy’s new cases surged for a fourth day, reaching 5,372, the most since late March. That’s well above the previous seven-day average of 2,999. Daily testing hit a new record and the positivity rate kept climbing to 4.1%, the highest since April. Lombardy, the epicenter of the outbreak earlier this year, reported a 44% increase in new cases to 983. Patients in intensive care units rose by 29 to 387, still about a 10th of the April peak. Another 28 deaths were reported. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the differences are likely too big and the time is too short for Congress to agree on a new comprehensive stimulus package before the election, despite President Donald Trump’s renewed interest in striking a deal. “I believe that we do need another rescue package, but the proximity to the elections and the differences of opinion about what is needed are pretty vast,” McConnell said at an event in his home state of Kentucky. He also said that while both sides agree on the need for aid to U.S. airlines, that too is unlikely to happen in the next three weeks. The New York Jets have sent all players and coaches home after a presumptive positive player test Friday, ESPN’s Adam Schefter reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak announced new support for jobs in coronavirus hot spots, as tougher restrictions are readied to try to contain a pandemic the government warned is “getting out of control.” Under Sunak’s plans, the government will pay two-thirds of the wages of workers in companies forced to close as a result of virus restrictions, and will also offer increased cash grants while they are shuttered. The extra support, which Treasury officials said will amount to hundreds of millions of pounds a month, comes before new curbs next week which could involve shutting bars and restaurants in areas of England where the disease is spreading most rapidly. White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said Trump “will be clear to go” on Saturday, when “he wants to talk to the American people.” There are medical tests underway to ensure he doesn’t transmit the virus when he returns to the campaign trail, she said on Fox News, noting she’d conferred with White House doctor Sean Conley. Trump plans a live televised interview Friday, in which he’ll get a TV doctor’s assessment. New York’s Broadway venues will remain dark at least through May 30. Specific return dates for new and resuming Broadway shows will be determined by their production companies, the Broadway League trade association said in a statement Friday. Plays and musicals, suspended since March 12, previously were expected to resume ticket sales in January. Additional measures in the Netherlands to battle the outbreak are “inescapable” if there’s no change in the daily numbers in the coming days, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said at his weekly press briefing on Friday after cases hit a new daily record. He declined to elaborate on possible new steps. The nation’s healthy agency RIVM confirmed 5,983 new Covid-19 cases in the 24 hours until Friday morning, and the country’s 14-day cumulative number of coronavirus cases per 100,000 people is the third-highest in the EU, only trailing Spain and the Czech Republic. The number of virus patients in Dutch hospitals rose by 69 to 1,139. The Dutch government last week announced new measures, including closing bars at 10 p.m. and banning spectators at sports events. Rutte has also issued an “urgent” recommendation for locals to wear face masks in shops, bars, restaurants and other public indoor areas, but he has refused a call from some opposition parties to make this mandatory. Chancellor Angela Merkel warned that Germany faces a crucial moment that can determine whether it regains or loses control of the coronavirus pandemic. “Now are the days and weeks that will determine how Germany heads into the winter,” Merkel said Friday after talks with mayors of the country’s 11 biggest cities, adding that they agreed to thresholds that would trigger tighter restrictions. Merkel will speak with city officials again in two weeks to determine how effective the measures have been. Germany recorded more than 4,000 new coronavirus cases for a second straight day on Friday. Portugal on Friday reported the biggest daily increase in the number of confirmed coronavirus cases since April. There were 1,394 new cases in a day, more than the 1,278 reported on Thursday, taking the total to 83,928. The number of patients in intensive care units rose by 10 to 125, a level that’s still less than half of the peak reached in April. London Mayor Sadiq Khan said new stricter lockdown restrictions for the capital are “highly likely” soon, LBC radio reported. Khan said his forecast is that there’ll be further restrictions brought in because “we don’t want to see in October and November what we saw in March and April.” Separately, the U.K. says that the latest reproduction, or R number, range for the coronavirus in the U.K. is between 1.2-1.5 and the growth rate range is +4% to +9% per day, according to updated guidance. The rate of coronavirus infection in England almost doubled in the week through Oct. 1, the Office for National Statistics said Friday. Microsoft is allowing its employees to work from home permanently, The Verge reports, citing Microsoft’s internal guidance plans. The company plans to let employees work from home freely for less than 50% of their working week or for managers to approve permanent remote work. Iran reported 4,142 new coronavirus cases overnight, down about 5.6% from the record number of infections the day before. The health ministry also recorded 210 deaths in the past 24 hours, bringing the country’s total tally to 492,378 cases and 28,098 fatalities. Earlier Friday, the health ministry banned the hospitalization of non-emergency patients to address the high volume of coronavirus patient admissions, deputy minister Iraj Haririchi said, as worries mount over bed shortages. The Spanish government is set to declare a state of emergency for the region of Madrid, ramping up its efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus in the capital, La Sexta television reported Friday. The decision comes as the government of Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez grapples with a new outbreak of the pandemic in Madrid amid a standoff with the regional administration over how to handle the crisis. The state of emergency gives Sanchez extraordinary powers to order restrictions on movement. Covid-19 cases per 100,000 people over the past 14 days Source: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  Oman will reinstate a curfew starting Oct. 11 for two weeks to better contain the outbreak of the coronavirus. The sultanate has registered a spike in virus cases at the beginning of the month, reaching as high as 2,600 in a single day. Russia posted a record number of new Covid-19 cases Friday as the government has resisted returning to a lockdown to battle the second wave of infections. There were 12,126 cases in the past day, breaking the previous record from May, according to data from the government’s National Virus Response Center. In Romania, the number of new infections was also at a record. The Czech Republic reported reported a new high of 5,394 infections on Thursday. The country’s 14-day cumulative number of Covid-19 cases per capita is now the highest in the EU, followed by Spain, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. India added 70,496 cases for a total of 6.91 million total as of Friday, according to government data, with Covid-19-related deaths increasing to 106,490. But in Mumbai’s biggest slum, the virus has largely been contained. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Heather Burke, Erik Wasson, Laura Litvan, Marco Bertacche, Nikos Chrysoloras, Jennifer Jacobs, Amanda Albright, Jordan Fabian, and Billy House