Azerbaijan and Armenia said continued fighting in and around the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region was preventing the start of a humanitarian truce that Russia secured in overnight talks. Both sides said clashes continued in the south of the conflict zone, while Azerbaijan’s Defense Ministry accused Armenians of firing on its positions in the east and northeast as well. Armenia’s Defense Ministry denied that and accused Baku of attacking. Nagorno-Karabakh’s armed forces said in a Facebook post that initially they’d ordered a halt to fighting but were “returning fire” from Azerbaijan in the south. Moscow hosted the first talks between the bitter rivals to seek a halt to the worst fighting in decades over Nagorno-Karabakh, a landlocked region in the South Caucasus. The cease-fire was set to start at 12 p.m. local time to allow the sides to exchange prisoners and recover bodies of those killed in the fighting that flared up almost two weeks ago. “Efforts are being made through all possible diplomatic channels to implement the cease-fire agreement,” Armenian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Anna Naghdalyan said on Facebook. Defense Minister Davit Tonoyan and the head of International Red Cross Armenia, Claire Meytraud, discussed plans for the exchange and recovery operations. Fighting has resumed over disputed territories Sources: International Crisis Group; AW Consulting  Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev said that a political resolution to the conflict will be possible if Armenia commits to a cease-fire, in an interview with Russia’s RBC television channel. But, he said, the country “will carry on until the very end” to restore its control over Nagorno-Karabakh and seven surrounding districts that are internationally recognized as part of Azerbaijan. A solution will depend on compromise, and “Azerbaijan is not ready,” Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan said in an interview with German ZDF TV channel. Armenia has said it’s defending Nagorno-Karabakh’s right to self-determination after the Armenian majority declared independence amid the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. The Russian Foreign Ministry said Armenia and Azerbaijan agreed to start “substantive negotiations” to resolve the long-running territorial clash, according to a statement on its website early Saturday after more than 10 hours of talks. Russia, France and the U.S. have failed to get the sides to sign a final peace deal since Moscow brokered a truce in 1994 to end a war that killed more than 30,000 people and displaced more than 1 million. The cease-fire is a temporary measure, for humanitarian purposes only, Azerbaijani presidential aide Hikmet Hajiyev said at a news conference in Baku. “Azerbaijan will not accept an imitation of talks” like those held in the past three decades, he said. Why Stakes Are Raised in the Azeri-Armenian Conflict: QuickTake Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov held the marathon negotiations with his Azerbaijani and Armenian counterparts after intense fighting killed hundreds and left a trail of devastation since the conflict reignited on Sept. 27. The warring sides had ignored repeated calls for a cease-fire by France, Russia and the U.S., which act as the so-called Minsk Group of mediators. Azerbaijan has said Turkey, which has backed it in the conflict, should be involved in mediation. Armenia has accused Turkey of involvement in the fighting and of funneling extremists from Syria to join the combat on Azerbaijan’s side. Both Ankara and Baku have denied it’s taking part in the fighting or that Syrian militants are present. “While the humanitarian truce for the exchange of hostages and bodies of those killed is an important first step, it won’t be the lasting solution,” Turkey’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Saturday, reiterating Turkey’s full support for Azerbaijan. Armenian President Armen Sarkissian said in a Bloomberg TV interview Friday that he’d asked the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to “put pressure on Turkey that they should not get involved.” Armenia won’t have “any other choice” but to recognize Nagorno-Karabakh’s independence if fighting continues, he said. The latest attempt to restore a cease-fire came after Russian President Vladimir Putin held a series of phone talks with Aliyev and Pashinyan. French President Emmanuel Macron also spoke to with the two leaders. “Putin could no longer avoid intervening” in the crisis in Russia’s former Soviet backyard as Turkey asserted itself, said Vladimir Frolov, a foreign affairs expert in Moscow and former diplomat. — With assistance by Ilya Arkhipov, Henry Meyer, Stepan Kravchenko, Anthony Halpin, and Selcan Hacaoglu