Angela Merkel aims to partially shut down Europe’s largest economy to combat the virus. German Chancellor Angela Merkel aims to close restaurants and ban big events, partially shutting down Europe’s largest economy to curb the rapid spread of the coronavirus. Merkel intends to propose the tougher national restrictions to the country’s 16 state premiers at a meeting on Wednesday, according to German media reports. Unlike the previous lockdown in spring, schools and daycare centers would stay open unless they are in regions with exceptionally high infection rates. “Covid-19 has changed almost everything,” Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said at a conference in Berlin on Tuesday. “This is something that must remind us of the urgency of concrete and effective action against a further dynamic spread.” The German chancellor has promised to do all she can to prevent another nationwide lockdown like the one that hammered the economy in the second quarter. But with infections once again surging, she has painted an increasingly darker picture of the outbreak and called for greater urgency in the fight against the virus. Like elsewhere in Europe, the number of new infections in Germany has shot up rapidly in recent days. They reached a record on Saturday, and the average over the past week is well above the worst day during the spring. In a closed-door leadership meeting of Merkel’s Christian Democratic party on Monday, her Chief of Staff Helge Braun warned that cases are currently doubling every seven days and could reach 30,000 by next week, German newspaper Bild reported. In another sign of heightened alarm, Merkel moved forward the meeting with state leaders to discuss the next steps by two days to Wednesday. The proposal marks another effort by the German leader to forge a consensus after she failed to get state premiers to accept tighter curbs in recent weeks. In Germany, the states are responsible for most of the measures to fight the pandemic, giving Merkel limited power to combat the virus and forcing her to seek to align regional leaders. Concern is growing across Europe that the recent surge in cases will prompt the need for tighter restrictions, thus hindering the nascent economic recovery. German companies are already turning more pessimistic, potentially marking the beginning of a major setback after half a year of gradual improvements, the Ifo Institute’s business climate index published Monday suggested. Germany’s gross domestic product will likely shrink by 5.5%, less than a prediction of 5.8% made at the start of September. The government delayed the presentation of its latest forecasts to Friday from Wednesday.