Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. President Donald Trump briefly left his hospital in a car to greet supporters gathered outside, after posting a video on Twitter saying he was about to make a surprise visit. “We’re going to pay a little surprise to some of the great patriots that we have out on the street,” he said in the video. “I’m about to make a little surprise visit so perhaps I will get there before you get to see me.” Trump also said he’s learned “a lot” about Covid-19 by going through it. “God bless our president, I will die for him.”Trump pulls a surprise drive-by visit with supporters outside Walter Reed Medical Center pic.twitter.com/EfUMDRgFVO Other developments: U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin spoke with Trump on Saturday to discuss the administration’s efforts to pass another round of stimulus, according to a person familiar with the matter. The administration still sees the best pitch for more coronavirus relief at about $1.5 trillion, the person said. Democrats in the House passed a slimmed-down $2.2 trillion stimulus bill on Thursday. Trump called for a deal on Saturday, tweeting that the U.S. “wants and needs stimulus.” Trump briefly left his hospital in a car to greet supporters gathered outside Sunday afternoon. He waved to supporters while wearing a mask, video footages show. Trump said he’s learned “a lot” about Covid-19 by going through it. pic.twitter.com/0Bm9W2u1x7 The president received a positive Covid-19 result on Thursday evening from a rapid test, but didn’t disclose the news while he awaited a more thorough screening, Dow Jones reported, citing people familiar with the matter. Instead, he made an appearance on Fox News without revealing the diagnosis, and later tweeted that his top aide Hope Hicks had tested positive and his results were pending. The president eventually announced he had tested positive at 1 a.m. on Friday. With a poll showing Biden with a record lead over Trump, the president on Sunday tweeted a survey in Britain’s Sunday Express that gave him the edge. The newspaper cited a Democracy Institute national poll as suggesting Trump is “still on course for victory” with 46% support compared to Biden’s 45%. The survey closed Friday, the day of Trump’s early-morning tweet that he and First Lady Melania Trump had tested positive for Covid-19. The margin of error was plus or minus 2.5 percentage points, according to the Sunday Express. Joe Biden leads by 14 percentage points in a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll taken after Tuesday’s debate but before the president’s coronavirus diagnosis was announced. Biden led by 53% to 39% in the national poll, his highest margin of the presidential campaign and surpassing his previous 11 percentage-point margin peak in July. U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo will shorten his travel to Asia as the White House deals with the spread of the coronavirus among its top officials. Pompeo will visit Tokyo from Oct. 4-6 for a meeting of the foreign ministers of four of the Indo-Pacific region’s biggest democracies, State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said in a statement. Both Pompeo and his wife have tested negative for the virus. White House aide Nick Luna, who serves as a personal attendant to Trump, has tested positive for coronavirus infection, according to people familiar with the matter. Luna’s diagnosis emerged a little more than 24 hours after Trump entered the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center for treatment of Covid-19 following his own infection. Known as Trump’s body man, Luna is the latest member of Trump’s inner circle of White House personnel to contract coronavirus. Hope Hicks, one of the president’s closest advisers, fell ill on Wednesday while traveling with Trump. Trump completed his second dose with Remdesivir “without complication,” Conley said in the president’s health update. His oxygen saturation levels were between 96%-98% all day, the physician said. “He spent most of the afternoon conducting business, and has been up and moving about the medical suite without difficulty,” Conley said. “The plan for tomorrow is to continue observation in between doses of Remdesivir, closely monitoring his clinical status while fully supporting his conduct of presidential duties.” Biden’s campaign said Saturday it will release the results of all his coronavirus tests. The former vice president tested negative on Friday for the virus and told reporters that he would be tested again Sunday. He was not tested Saturday, he said after leaving an evening church service. “We have adhered to strict and extensive safety practices recommended by public health experts and doctors in all of our campaigning,” campaign spokesman Andrew Bates said in a statement. “Vice President Biden is being tested regularly, and we will be releasing the results of each test.” Trump said he’s starting to feel better and that he expects to “be back soon,” in a video appearance on Twitter Saturday evening. “I came here, wasn’t feeling so well. I feel much better now,” he said from a U.S. military hospital near Washington. “I look forward to finishing up the campaign the way it was started.” The former New Jersey governor said on Twitter that he entered Morristown Medical Center on Saturday after testing positive for Covid-19, and as a precautionary measure due to his history of asthma. He said he is “feeling good” with only “mild symptoms.” Christie had assisted in the president’s debate preparations. I just received word that I am positive for COVID-19. I want to thank all of my friends and colleagues who have reached out to ask how I was feeling in the last day or two. I will be receiving medical attention today and will keep the necessary folks apprised of my condition. The New Jersey Department of Health and the Somerset County Health Department urged anyone who came into close contact with a person who tested positive after attending a fundraiser at President Trump’s golf club in Bedminster to quarantine for 14 days. All attendees should self-monitor until Oct. 15, according to the statement. The U.S. government is also conducting tracing investigations. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said he had a call with Trump and that he “sounds well.” They talked about handling the pandemic, confirming the Supreme Court nominee and strengthening the economy. McConnell said earlier that the fast-track schedule for confirming Judge Amy Coney Barrett won’t be affected by the Covid-19 diagnoses of Trump and three Republican senators. GOP Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Ben Sasse of Nebraska both tested negative and will return to the Senate in time for the Supreme Court nomination hearings starting the week of Oct. 12, according to their spokespersons. The two members of the Senate Judiciary Committee are staying in their home states after interacting with other members of the panel who have tested positive. President Trump resumed tweeting Saturday afternoon. He said he’s “feeling well” and called for getting a stimulus deal done. Despite a positive account from Trump’s doctor, a person familiar with the matter said the president’s vital signs were very concerning over the past 24 hours, and that the next 48 hours will be critical, noting that the president isn’t yet on a clear path to recovery. Trump’s physician clarified in a memo that Trump was first diagnosed with Covid-19 on Thursday evening. LIVE: President Trump is “doing very well” according to his personal physician, Dr. Conley. It was just announced that Trump is receiving #Remdesivir therapy to fight #Covid19. What does this mean?@madisonmills22 and @jordanfabian discuss https://t.co/5DYQY6Y09n — With assistance by Rosalind Mathieson, Stuart Biggs, Anthony Halpin, Laura Litvan, Kathleen Hunter, John Harney, Steven T. Dennis, and Saleha Mohsin