U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak rejected the idea that his flagship program to boost struggling restaurants helped spread the coronavirus over the summer. “I would be, I guess, cautious about jumping to simplistic conclusions,” Sunak said on Sky News on Tuesday. “It’s incredibly difficult to pinpoint at such a granular level exactly the cause of transmission.” Rishi Sunak Photographer: Leon Neal - WPA Pool /Getty Images On Sunday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson told the BBC’s Andrew Marr program that the Eat Out to Help Out initiative -- which paid people up to 10 pounds ($13) per person for a meal in a restaurant in a bid to protect hospitality jobs -- might have helped the transmission of the disease. “Insofar as that scheme may have helped to spread the virus, obviously we need to counteract that and we need to counteract that with the discipline and the measures that we’re proposing,” Johnson said. But Sunak did not see a cause-and-effect relationship. He said that incidence of the virus has been lower in areas like southwest England, where there was significant take-up of the offer. The government is now trying to suppress a resurgence of the virus as the country heads into the winter months, including by imposing new restrictions on hospitality. Sunak Sees ‘Hard Choices’ With Warning on U.K. Expenditure Sunak told BBC TV on Monday that a 10 p.m. curfew on pubs and restaurants “could” help slow transmission, a half-hearted endorsement of a policy that’s sparked the ire of rank-and-file Conservative members of Parliament ahead of an expected vote in the House of Commons on Wednesday. Income tax, VAT and NICs together account for 60% of total U.K. revenue Source:  Office for Budget Responsibility, Treasury calculations Note: estimates published on March 11, therefore do not reflect impact of lockdown and stimulus measures on tax receipts In a series of morning interviews, Sunak told told BBC radio ministers “fully intend to deliver” on the Tory party’s manifesto promises -- though he declined to specifically reiterate the pledge not to raise income tax, VAT or National Insurance. Economists say it will be difficult to raise significant amounts of tax revenue without touching the three levies. Sunak also: Speaking to lawmakers on Tuesday, the head of the lobby group that represents the hospitality industry said Eat Out to Help Out, which applied for three days a week during August, provided a welcome boost but warned that revenue has since fallen well below levels needed for businesses to cover their costs. “Thirteen days of good trading, and they were good trading, doesn’t offset 60% losses on the year to date, which is what we’re at looking at now,” Kate Nicholls, chief executive officer of UKHospitality, told the Treasury Committee. “So it got people back to break-even; it didn’t get them back to solvency, and now they’ve gone further backwards.” The 10 p.m. curfew, she said, has had a “severe and devastating impact,” leaving businesses facing a “very bleak winter” during what is normally a busy time of the year. — With assistance by Andrew Atkinson, and Kitty Donaldson