European nations including Germany continued to report record Covid-19 cases, while Poland and Hungary registered unprecedented daily deaths. The outbreaks have prompted tougher curbs on London and a curfew in Paris, while Belgium readies stricter measures. The U.S. reported the most daily cases in two months as total infections approached 8 million, with Midwest states seeing the biggest surges. Joe Biden faulted Donald Trump’s handling of the coronavirus in a televised town hall while the U.S. president continued to question the effectiveness of masks in another forum. Remdesivir has no definite effect on a hospitalized patient’s chances of survival, a clinical trial by the World Health Organization found. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Poland registered a record 132 daily Covid deaths, even as new infections slowed to 7,705 from 8,099 the previous day. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country has risen to 157,608, the health ministry said on Twitter. Hungary reported a daily record of 33 coronavirus deaths, while the number of patients on ventilators more than doubled over the past week to 171.Epidemiologists advising the Hungarian government have warned that with one of the lowest testing rates in the European Union, the nation was at risk of losing track of the pandemic. Hungarians shouldn’t plan to travel abroad this winter because of a worsening trend in the pandemic, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said in a social media post. Russia reported 232 Covid deaths for the past day, raising the total fatalities in the country to 23,723. The nation also saw 15,150 new cases. The Czech Republic saw a second straight record day with 9,721 new cases on Thursday, bringing the total number of the currently ill to 84,430 in the nation of 10.7 million. The army will start to build a field hospital in Prague this weekend to add extra bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. Bulgaria reported a record-high number of new cases for a third consecutive day, with 915, as well as a record number of hospitalizations. Health care Minister Kostadin Angelov urged people to respect current anti-virus measures like wearing masks in closed spaces and avoiding big gatherings. The government isn’t yet planning to tighten down further. Australia is adding commercial flights from the U.K., India and South Africa and boosting quarantine places so that more Australians stranded overseas by the pandemic can return home. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Qantas Airways Ltd. will provide eight flights over coming weeks from London, New Delhi and Johannesburg. All returned travelers have to undertake quarantine in hotels for 14 days. An additional 5,000 quarantine places will be available over the next six months under an agreement with the Northern Territory government to open up a facility near Darwin. Belgium’s 14-day incidence rate rose to 550 cases per 100,000 from 494 Thursday, trailing only the Czech Republic as the hardest hit country in Europe. About 12.7% of tests performed in the past week came back positive, an increase from 11.9% the day before. Prime Minister Alexander De Croo will announce more stringent measures later on Friday. Germany reported a record increase in coronavirus infections for a second consecutive day, with the number of cases rising by 7,620 in the 24 hours through Friday morning, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That followed Thursday’s increase of 7,173, which was the most since the previous peak in late March. Recent outbreaks have been fueled by social gatherings and are also occurring in companies and increasingly in nursing homes, according to Germany’s RKI public health institute. India reported 63,371 additional coronavirus cases on Friday, continuing an easing trend that has seen infections drop below 70,000 for five straight days. India, which now has a total of 7.37 million cases, has been on track to surpass the U.S. as the world’s worst-hit nation. But Covid-19 is resurging in the U.S., with daily cases there climbing to match India’s while total U.S. infections are approaching 8 million. Deaths climbed in India, with a tally of 112,161 versus 111,266 the day before. Airfares between Singapore and Hong Kong jumped after they unveiled plans for a travel bubble that wouldn’t require people to quarantine upon arrival. The cheapest price for a return economy seat on Singapore Airlines Ltd. to Hong Kong was S$558 ($410) on Friday morning up until the end of December, versus around S$400 on Thursday afternoon as the news was being announced, the airline’s website shows. Return business-class fares rose by around HK$5,000 ($645) to HK$19,000. Japan’s coronavirus infections are leveling off and a dramatic change in new patient numbers is not expected, domestic media reports cited Shigeru Omi, head of the government’s virus advisory panel, as saying Thursday. People’s behavior is still shifting as many want to get back to normal life, but are also increasingly aware of situations where infection risk is high, he said. The island nation has recorded less than 1,000 infections per day for over a month. Cluster infection events still pose a risk, Omi warned. The Formula One Vietnam Grand Prix has been canceled this year over concerns about the coronavirus outbreak, according to a statement by Vingroup JSC, which has a multiyear deal to host the event. The cancellation was necessary in light of the continued uncertainty caused by the pandemic, the statement said. Vietnam has not reported any new community transmission cases since Sept. 2. Britain’s National Health Service is in talks with groups including the British Medical Association about mobilizing for a potential rollout of a Covid-19 vaccine by December, Reuters reported, citing the Pulse website for health professionals. There’s about a 50/50 chance that the vaccine can begin to be administered that month, Reuters said, citing the report from Pulse, which attributed a person familiar with the matter. China’s eastern port city of Qingdao, which has an outbreak of 13 infections, said it has found no new cases after conducting 10.8 million tests in four days. The local government aims to test the entire population within five days. In contrast to Europe where cases are rising again, Qingdao’s approach shows China’s faster testing ability whenever an outbreak happens. The country tested millions of people in Wuhan and Beijing earlier this year. South Korea reported 47 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, down from 99 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. The total number of confirmed cases there rose to 25,035. Malaysia is in the last stages of finalizing its participation in the Covid-19 Global Vaccine Access Plan, according to Science, Technology, and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin. The country expects to join Covax in two weeks. Ricardo Salinas Pliego, the head of Grupo Salinas and Latin America’s seventh-richest man, took to Twitter on Wednesday to confirm his Covid-19 diagnosis and say that everyone will get the infection eventually. The billionaire -- who had previously called Mexico’s measures to contain the virus “authoritarian” and said they would wreck the economy -- accompanied the post with a picture of his treatment plan. “Take care of yourselves and do not be afraid,” Salinas, who turns 65 next week, said in his tweet. “We’ll all have to get it, and we will be fine.” Remdesivir has no definite effect on a hospitalized patient’s chances of survival, a clinical trial by the World Health Organization found. Results from the Solidarity trial, which studied antiviral treatments -- including remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir and interferon -- found they had “appeared to have little or no effect” on mortality, the need to ventilate patients, or how long patients stayed in the hospital. The study has not yet been peer-reviewed. Gilead, which makes remdesivir, said in a statement it’s unclear if any conclusive findings can be drawn from the study results. The former New Jersey governor said he was wrong not to wear a mask when he visited the White House and urged people to take steps to prevent infection. Chris Christie, left, at the White House on Sept. 27. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Getty Images Christie, who attended the Amy Coney Barrett announcement and helped President Donald Trump prepare for his debate, said he learned from his experience with the virus that “you should follow CDC guidelines in public no matter where you are.” The shot under development by China National Biotec Group Co., a subsidiary of state-owned Sinopharm Group Co., was tested in more than 600 volunteers, according to results published Thursday in The Lancet medical journal. Argentina reported a daily record of 17,096 as it passed Colombia as the second most-infected country in Latin America after Brazil. Argentina, currently No. 5 globally in overall cases, has 949,063 positive cases and 25,342 fatalities. A thermal camera checks the temperature of the people entering a shopping mall in Buenos Aires on Oct. 14. Photographer: Juan Mabromata/AFP via Getty Images Brazil reported 28,523 cases, a slight increase from the day before amid a continuing general decline in the nation with the third-highest number of infections. It has a total of 5,169,386 cases and 152,460 deaths, 713 reported in the last 24 hours. A passenger on Biden’s campaign plane tested positive for Covid-19, the Biden campaign announced Thursday. An administrator for the aviation charter company the campaign uses was on the plane this week for trips to Ohio and Florida but sat more than 50 feet from the Democratic nominee, used a different entrance and exit and both Biden and the person were wearing masks at all times, campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said. Health advisers said there was no need to quarantine Biden, she said. Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers said Thursday he’ll challenge a Wednesday judicial decision that temporarily blocked an order limiting capacity in bars, restaurants and other public places. Customers sit in the outdoor dining area of a restaurant in downtown Madison, Wisconsin, U.S., on Sept. 23. Photographer: Lauren Justice/Bloomberg He spoke as the state again hit a record number of daily cases, 3,747. He has imposed a mask mandate and other public health measures that have been challenged in court. “I don’t know how anyone in the state of Wisconsin can feel comfortable about saying, ‘What the hell, I don’t care about preventing deaths.’ That is unimaginable to me,” Evers said in a conference call Thursday. Midwest states have seen a rise in cases. In Illinois, cases surged to a record 4,015 on Thursday, extending one of the nation’s most concerning weekly trends. Daily Covid-19 deaths in the state rose to 53, the highest since June 24. Social distancing signs are displayed at a theater in Michigan, U.S., on Oct. 9. Photographer: Emily Elconin/Bloomberg In Michigan and Ohio, current coronavirus hospitalizations are up 31% and 28% in the past week, the nation’s fifth- and seventh-biggest spikes respectively, according to the Covid Tracking Project. On the basis of per-capita cases, none of those states comes close to the viral prevalence in the Dakotas or Wisconsin. Still, a trend is emerging. In North Dakota, which ranks highest in the nation for cases per capita, a record 705 new cases were reported. The state has been running short of hospital beds, and Governor Doug Burgum is under increasing pressure from mayors and others to issue mask mandates. France reported a record 30,621 new infections on Thursday after the previous high last Saturday with 26,896 cases. Deaths increased by 88 to 33,125, according to the health agency. Morning rush hour commuters wear protective face masks on busy metro train in Paris on Oct. 14. Photographer: Nathan Laine/Bloomberg In Spain, 6,603 new cases were detected, the biggest daily increase since April. The region reporting the highest number of cases is Madrid, which reported 2,292 new infections, after the national government declared the state of emergency. Catalonia, the country’s second most-populous region, is also set to implement a shutdown of bars and restaurants. Ireland reported a record 1,205 new cases. The number of hospitalizations is increasing faster than its modeling predicted, health authorities said, a sign of “a rapidly deteriorating disease trajectory nationally.” Cyprus reported 93 cases, a record high since the beginning of the pandemic. Meanwhile, Ukraine imposed a lockdown for nine cities, 21 towns and 37 districts where schools and restaurants will be shut. The U.K. reported a further 18,980 new cases and 138 new deaths on Thursday, as it wrestled with how to control the virus in its hot spots. People sit around an advertisement displaying that the current Local Covid Alert Level is Medium at a bus stop in London, U.K., on Oct. 15. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg Talks over whether Manchester will go into the highest level of restrictions ended without a conclusion on Thursday, as local leaders resisted tougher measures. Greater Manchester Mayor Andy Burnham asked for more government support for businesses if they are forced to close. Londoners will be banned from mixing with other households indoors from this weekend as tighter coronavirus restrictions are imposed in an attempt to curb a rise in cases in the capital. The move was welcomed by Mayor Sadiq Khan, who asked for more financial support and repeated calls for a “circuit breaker” or lockdown. The U.K. also imposed quarantines on those arriving from Italy. BREAKING: Londoners will be banned from mixing with other households indoors from this weekend in an attempt to curb a rise in virus cases https://t.co/3gX438KFO3 pic.twitter.com/DdrtTJjBAc Italy’s cases reached a daily record on Thursday, rising to 8,804, compared with 7,332 the previous day. About 163,000 tests were carried out, and 83 deaths related to Covid-19 were reported, bringing the total to 36,372. Patients in intensive care units rose by 47 to 586. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte imposed a series of new curbs on nightlife, social events and amateur sports as the pandemic intensifies throughout the country, though at a slower pace than in other major European nations Mayor Bill de Blasio said a massive testing effort inside areas of increasing Covid-19 had shown a leveling off of new infections, but more must be done to stave off a second wave of the pandemic in the most populous US city. New York has conducted 17,000 tests in three clusters of the city, offering self-testing with 13 mobile testing units in the the areas where the virus is spreading at a faster rate, the mayor said. “I am deeply concerned about the threat of a second wave,” he said. Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris has canceled her travel until Monday after her communications director and a member of her flight crew tested positive for Covid-19, the Biden campaign said Thursday. The campaign said the California senator was not in “close contact” with communications director Liz Allen or the crew member in the days before they tested positive, but her travel would be paused “out of an abundance of caution.” Neither infected person was in contact with presidential nominee Joe Biden, whose travel schedule won’t be interrupted. The Houston metro area’s tally of the sickest virus patients jumped by 18% in 24 hours to the highest in a month, according to the SouthEast Texas Regional Advisory Council. There were 214 Covid-19 patients in intensive-care units in the nine-county region that includes the fourth-largest U.S. city. The spike comes amid resurgent outbreaks in El Paso, Lubbock and Amarillo that are straining ICU capacity. It wasn’t clear how many of the Houston patients were transported from other parts of the state. — With assistance by Anil Varma, Claire Che, Lisa Du, Kyunghee Park, Iain Rogers, John Martens, Ed Johnson, Slav Okov, Lenka Ponikelska, Zoltan Simon, and Piotr Bujnicki