Reed Hilderbrand’s proposal aims to connect the Tidal Basin to the rest of Washington, D.C., an idea influenced by the 1902 McMillan Plan for the development of a citywide parks system. Tidal Basin Ideas Lab Tidal Basin Ideas Lab Lined with cherry trees and home to larger-than-life memorials of key American figures like Martin Luther King Jr. and Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Tidal Basin in Washington, D.C., is a beloved public space with historical significance. But 140 years after the construction of a seawall atop a landfill in the Potomac River, the site is regularly submerged under water. Sidewalks along the two-mile loop surrounding the man-made reservoir flood almost daily during high tide, forcing people to walk on the roots of the cherry trees — some of which regularly stand in as much as three feet of water. It’s the result of a combination of interrelated threats: sinking land, rising sea levels and a crumbling infrastructure unable to absorb the region’s intensifying rainstorms. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers predicts that the river will rise by over three feet by 2080, while experts say 1-in-100-year storms could become 1-in-25-year events by mid-century. Five architects have come up with ways to save the Tidal Basin for a joint project between the National Trust for Historic Preservation, Trust for the National Mall and the National Park Service. The ideas, several of which call for a vast reimagining of the space, offer a range of visions for adapting historic landscapes to a new climate reality. “It’s about how you do that in ways that balance adaptation with honoring their legacies and the ways in which they serve their communities,” says Katherine Malone-France, chief preservation officer of the National Trust for Historic Preservation. The designs, available in a digital exhibit through the Tidal Basin Ideas Lab, vary widely. A proposal from the firm GGN, for example, envisions a series of incremental changes that will allow the Tidal Basin to integrate the “regional ecology” and for the infrastructure to accommodate future sea level rise. The redesign would add more walkways throughout the space to accommodate millions of annual visitors without putting pressure on the natural landscape. Another idea suggests using green infrastructure to turn the park into a natural “sponge” to absorb stormwater. “The creation of new wetlands and green walls will, like a sponge, absorb rising waters,” the design firm DLANDstudio wrote in its statement, which also mentions moving the cherry trees and building a land bridge between the Jefferson Memorial and the White House to reorient the flow of visitors. By contrast, the proposal from James Corner Field Operations suggests embracing natural changes by allowing the Tidal Basin to flood and create an archipelago of islands where memorials remain standing, surrounded by green space that will protect them. “It’s an acceptance of inevitability of change in this landscape, and that flooding is a part of that,” says Malone-France. ”That can’t be entirely prevented. It’s about adapting to a dynamic climate.” Hood Design Studio reimagines the space to emphasize new and overlooked narratives. Its proposal includes tours of the area that teach visitors about the wetland landscape that existed before the site was reconstructed to become the Tidal Basin, and the communities that used them. “[Such] landscapes were valued by indigenous and enslaved people; for the latter, they functioned as ‘hush harbors,’ where Black communities of faith first developed,” the designers wrote in their statement, referring to spaces where slaves could hide from plantation owners and “found a sense of independence that inspired the origins of the Black church.” It also calls for the site to spark a conversation around how to face the future of climate change. In the final proposal, architects from Reed Hilderbrand aim to reconnect the site back to the city and its people. Drawing influence from the 1902 McMillan Plan for the development of a parks system, the redesign calls for a complex of recreational facilities, additional pathways for visitors and an elevated pedestrian bridge that leads people back to the rest of D.C. Though the proposals are vastly different from one another, they’re bound by some guiding principles: “One absolutely was the ways in which natural resources and cultural resources are inextricably intertwined, and how we need to address them in a holistic way,” Malone-France says. The conceptual designs don’t shy away from being bold and innovative, something Malone-France attributes to the collaborative nature of the project. “This wasn’t a design competition; there is no winner,” she says, adding that the teams were sharing ideas throughout the planning process. It’s possible the designs may be too far out for some, but Malone-France says they point to a key aspect about historic preservation in the  face of climate change. “It really requires preservationists to acknowledge that we can’t freeze places in time, and I think landscapes, particularly, make this so clear  — that places are going to continue to change and evolve.” she says. As for whether any of these ideas can be put in place, it’s still up in the air. The National Park Service estimates that restoring the Tidal Basin could cost as much as $500 million — that’s on top of the billions of dollars of maintenance needed across the city’s entire park system. But at the very least, the radical proposals get the conversation going.