In the empty streets of Amsterdam in April, sounds like the Westerkerk church bells that once dominated the city’s soundscape could be heard more vividly again without noise pollution. Photographer: Henk Seppen/BSR Agency/Getty Images Photographer: Henk Seppen/BSR Agency/Getty Images When cities went on lockdown during the pandemic, things got quieter, but they didn’t fall totally silent. Instead, the hooting of the scops owls became more distinct in Thessaloniki, Greece, where the sound of traffic once drowned them out. Birds in San Francisco sang in softer and clearer tones absent the honking of cars and rumbling of engines. Meanwhile in New York City, the humming of air conditioners from the towering buildings replaced the bustling noise of a once-packed Times Square. “You could just hear different things that you couldn't hear before,” says Stuart Fowkes, a U.K.-based artist who’s been mapping how sounds of cities have been changing since 2014. “I spent nights just walking around Oxford, where we have one of the world's oldest libraries. And when you walked past it, you could hear the sound of air conditioning coming out of the library, that's keeping all of these 400-year-old books dry and safe.” After the pandemic started, Fowkes's mapping project was able to capture how the urban soundscape changed dramatically almost overnight. Traffic noise virtually disappeared as governments urged people to stay home, while the wailing of ambulances and the banging of pots and pans reverberated through neighborhoods daily. Recordings from around the world — charted on a global map — also reveal how the crisis introduced new sounds to a city, notably in the form of public health messaging. “Right through to public transport announcements on subways and underground train systems telling everyone to wear masks, cover your mouth and nose, keep your distance, all that kind of stuff,” says Fowkes. One recording from St. Louis, Senegal, features an anti-coronavirus song blasting from the radio of a cab, with the singer “praying” that the virus will not reach his community in the local Wolof language. In another, announcements from the megaphone of a local police car driving around Milan, Italy, can be heard urging people to stay home, against the backdrop of ambulances and chirping birds. What Fowkes noticed most prominently, though, is the reemergence of sounds that are unique to a city but that had been lost to noise pollution over the years. The returning sounds of birds, insects and other elements of nature, for example, reveal the intricate natural environment that exists alongside cities, and the ringing of church bells might hint at a town’s history. A recording from March in Tehran of buskers playing instruments on an empty residential street points to how the Iranian city is adapting during the Persian new year Nowruz, a time when streets are usually bustling with people. Even the protests of health-care workers in Hong Kong, and justice advocates across the U.S. and beyond, can point to cities’ complex political histories. Fowkes has been crowdsourcing sounds from all over the world, resulting in an extensive database of nearly 4,000 recordings from a hundred-plus countries and territories. His latest project, Future Cities, features a world map with a sampling of those sounds, and is a culmination of multiple smaller projects based on different themes — from nature, to sacred spaces like churches and temples, to the rise in protests worldwide and, most recently, the sounds of a pandemic. The map also includes a “reimagining” of the field recordings, remixed by artists who add things like music, archival sounds or political context to showcase their personal reflection to what they hear. The project was originally set to be released in March, right as coronavirus cases began surging across the world. “That was the exact point at which the sounds of all cities in the world changed completely, and hopefully not for a long time,” he says. “So we went on to collect the urban Covid-19 sounds and rolled them into the Future Cities project, so it documents not only cities as they were a few years ago, but cities as they are today.” In pre-pandemic times, changes in the soundscape happened so incrementally that it was barely noticeable to the average person, but they were nevertheless getting louder. They were also starting to sound more alike, and that has been troubling to Fowkes. He calls it a “side effect” of globalization and rapid urbanization: “As cities grow, they almost necessarily grow in quite similar ways, in terms of increasing tall buildings, construction sites and car traffic, and in terms of increasingly similar ways of getting around the city,” he says. Not only is urban noise an environmental stressor and public health risk, according to the World Health Organization, but it’s also drowning out the more defining sounds of cities. He points, for example, to the chiming of bells from the historic Westerkerk church in Amsterdam. “A couple hundred years ago, they would have filled the entire neighborhood and helped people mark out kind of where they need to be at any given time,” he says. In the present day, before the pandemic emptied streets virtually across the Netherlands, the chimes sounded faint against the traffic of the the main road nearby. The pandemic has brought these kinds of sounds to the forefront, but Fowkes worries that they will get muted again when the health crisis eventually eases. That’s why he’s hoping that his ongoing project will bring more attention to the auditory elements of a city — which he says often get overlooked in a world dominated by visuals — and help make noise reduction a bigger consideration in policy decisions such as adding traffic lanes versus bike paths, or developing a neighborhood. Otherwise, the defining acoustics of a city “get drowned out before they get lost,” he adds.