France reported the most Covid-19 deaths since April on as President Emmanuel Macron readies new measures to control the coronavirus. German Chancellor Angela Merkel proposed closing bars and restaurants for a month and French President Emmanuel Macron prepared to announce tougher restrictions that may include a lockdown as hospitals fill up across Europe. Belgium’s hospital admissions soared to a record, surpassing the level reached at the height of the pandemic’s first wave. In a rare admission, U.S. President Donald Trump acknowledged that coronavirus cases are rising in “certain areas” of the Midwest. Covid-19 hospitalizations have risen at least 10% in the past week in 32 states and the nation’s capital. South Africa’s president is in self-quarantine. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths. Belgian hospital admissions soared to a record 689, surpassing the peak reached on March 28. There are now 5,554 Covid-19 patients being treated in Belgian hospitals and 911 in intensive care units. The country has a total ICU capacity of about 2,000 beds. European Union officials will seek to convince the bloc’s leaders to buy millions of antigen tests to help track down cases and battle the pandemic’s resurgence. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen will propose the rapid-test effort on Wednesday, according to two officials familiar with the matter. The EU’s executive arm will buy millions of kits for distribution to member states and propose joint procurement for millions more, the people said, asking not to be named as the plan is still subject to approval. The Czech Republic registered a daily record of 15,663 new cases on Tuesday, confirming its status as Europe’s second-worst outbreak behind Belgium by number of cases. The government, which introduced a curfew, further limited retail opening hours and ordered employees to work from home this week, said if new infections continue to surge, it will need to introduce stricter measures. Bulgaria also reported a record in cases and hospitalizations. German Chancellor Angela Merkel will propose tougher restrictions on movement and contact later on Wednesday, including closing bars, restaurants and leisure facilities until the end of November, according to a media report. They will take effect from Nov. 4. Merkel will also urge citizens to keep private contacts to an absolute minimum, and to avoid all non-urgent private travel, Funke Mediengruppe reported, citing a draft federal government briefing paper. Germany’s new coronavirus cases rose by 7,890 in the 24 hours. The average over the past week is well above the highest daily total during the first wave in the spring. Drugmakers Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline Plc agreed to make 200 million doses of their experimental vaccine available to Covax, a global effort to provide shots for developing nations. The drugmakers signed the supply arrangement with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, according to a statement. Gavi is among the groups working with the World Health Organization to ensure access to immunization for people around the world. Denmark’s government is offering 8.3 billion kroner ($1.3 billion) in additional support to businesses after imposing new pandemic restrictions. A share of the extra financial help, which covers this year and the next, will go to the culture and sports sectors, which have been particularly affected by the restrictions, the business ministry said late Tuesday. Novartis AG and Molecular Partners AG unveiled a partnership for the smaller biotech firm’ Covid-19 program, which consists of two experimental therapies. The potential medicines aim to both prevent and treat Covid-19, with the possibility to manufacture at scale and the potential to bypass cold storage. President Cyril Ramaphosa has begun a period of self-quarantine following the positive diagnosis of a guest at a dinner he attended on Oct. 24, according to an emailed statement. Ramaphosa is showing no symptoms at this time and will be tested should symptoms manifest. Pakistan is evaluating some actions and restrictions for hotspots to contain a second wave of the virus, Faisal Sultan, the special assistant on health to the prime minister, said in a televised briefing on Oct. 28. The South Asian nation’s daily cases have increased to between 700 and 750 from 400 to 500, Sultan said. The nation had experienced a peak in fresh virus cases about four months ago. Turkey has barred doctors, nurses and other health workers in the public sector from taking leave, resigning or retiring to ensure an uninterrupted fight against Covid-19, the newspaper Hurriyet reported, citing an order from the health ministry. The measure comes as cases surge across Turkey. India’s confirmed virus cases reached 7.99 million on Wednesday. The nation added 43,893 cases in a day, according to government data. Deaths rose to 120,010. India trails only the U.S. as the nation with the most number of cases. Iranian parliament speaker Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf has tested positive and is currently in self-isolation, the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency reported. Earlier this month, IRNA reported the country’s nuclear energy chief Ali Akbar Salehi as well as Mohammad Bagher Nobakht, a deputy president and top aide to President Hassan Rouhani, had also tested positive for the virus. President Donald Trump on Tuesday night acknowledged that coronavirus cases are rising in “certain areas” of the Midwest, a rare admission during the final week of the presidential campaign. Donald Trump arrives for a rally in Omaha, Nebraska on Tuesday. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images “Certain areas that are heated up right now,” Trump said at a rally in Omaha, Nebraska. “They’ll go down. They’ll go down very quickly. They’ll be down within two weeks, they’re figuring.” Trump has routinely downplayed the virus while making his closing argument to voters, who have rated his pandemic response poorly, according to opinion polls. The president said again on Tuesday that the country is “turning that corner.” South Korean President Moon Jae-in said his country has contained the coronavirus as he sought a budget increase in order help the pandemic-hit economy recover. Speaking in parliament, Moon called for strengthening the government’s fiscal role next year by increasing the budget by 8.5%. South Korea has seen some of the lowest death figures from Covid-19 of any advanced economy, with 461 as of Wednesday. There were 103 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours versus 88 a day earlier, according to data from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency. Buddhist monks walk through a gate spraying disinfectant at Bongeun Temple in Seoul on Oct. 27. Photographer: Jung Yeon-Je/AFP via Getty Images The Japanese government approved a bill on Tuesday that would make any potential coronavirus vaccine free for residents and compensate for the cost of any serious side effect, according to the Kyodo news agency. A budget of 671.4 billion yen ($6.4 billion) has been earmarked for the effort. The island nation has agreements with companies like AstraZeneca Plc, Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. for doses of their vaccines pending safety and efficacy results from clinical trials. The Chinese province had 22 confirmed coronavirus cases Tuesday, according to statement from the National Health Commission. China has tested nearly three million people in Xinjiang to tackle a small cluster of coronavirus cases, in the latest example of the country’s aggressive approach to bringing new outbreaks under control. While new infections in China have mostly remained below 100 a day since mid-August, with most of them imported from overseas, the nation continues to see small flare-ups. There were 42 confirmed cases on Tuesday. Singapore will allow travelers from more countries to spend their mandatory 14-day isolation period upon arrival in the city at their place of residence from November, the Ministry of Health said in a statement. Travelers from Estonia, Fiji, Finland, Japan, Norway, the Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Turkey who arrive in the city-state from Nov. 4 will be able to isolate at their place of residence. The United Nations has canceled all in-person meetings for this week after a member nation reported five cases among its staff, the AP reported. General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir did not identify the country, according to the report. Diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity because there had not been a public announcement, said it was the African nation of Niger, which is a member of the General Assembly and serving a two-year term on the 15-member Security Council, the report said. Watch: Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security Senior Scholar Dr. Amesh Adalja discusses the impact of Covid-19 on hospitals, concerns about coronavirus reinfections, and the timeline for a vaccine. (Source: Bloomberg) California Governor Gavin Newsom said he is hesitant to allow theme parks, including Disneyland, to reopen as coronavirus cases surge again across the world. A “Health and Safety Reminders” sign is displayed outside the closed gates of California Adventure theme park in Anaheim, California, on Sept. 30. Photographer: Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg Walt Disney Co. and other theme park operators have been pushing the state for permission to resume operations, particularly after Florida parks started operating again in June. But Newsom said Tuesday that other states and countries that have been more permissive about letting businesses reopen are now enduring another wave of infections. France reported the most virus deaths since April as President Emmanuel Macron readies new measures to bring the resurgence under control. Fatalities linked to the virus jumped by 523 to 35,541, health authorities reported. That’s the biggest increase since April 22, before the end of France’s lockdown in May, with the data including several days of deaths from nursing homes. Civil Protection (FNPC) crew prepare to move a patient from their ambulance in Paris on Oct. 24. Photographer: Nathan Laine/Bloomberg Macron will hold a televised address Wednesday evening. New measures will include a one-month lockdown, according to BFM television and other media. — With assistance by Andreea Papuc, and Kara Wetzel